                                  GONDOR

In the year 3320 of the Second Age, Elendil the Tall founded the Kingdom
of Gondor, ("Stone-land"), and committed it to the joint rule of his sons
Isildur and Anarion. Gondor consisted then of the provinces Anorien,
Ithilien, Calenardhon, Lebennin, Belfalas and Enedwaith. The inhabitants
of Gondor were the Dunedain, but this population became greatly mixed with
the years, including Dunlendings and Northmen. The first capital was
Osgiliath, and other great cities were Minas Anor, Minas Ithil, Dol Amroth
and Pelargir. At the height of its power around Third Age 1100, Gondor
extended north to Celebrant, east to the Sea of Rhun, south to the River
Harnen and Umbar, and west to River Gwathlo. Gondor was always under attack
by Sauron or his allies, from Harad, Umbar and Rhun. Ithilien, the province
bordering to Mordor, was invaded a number of times, from SA 3429 to TA 2002,
when Minas Ithil was taken by the Nine Ringwraiths. Gondor suffered three
great evils in the Third Age: The Kin-strife of 1432-48, the Great Plague
of 1636, and the Invasion of the Wainriders from 1851 to 1954. Gondor was
ruled by the Line of Anarion until it failed in TA 2050, and from that time
it has been governed by the Ruling Stewards, currently Steward Denethor.
  During the Kin-strife, the capital, Osgiliath was burnt, and many of its
inhabitants died in the Great Plague. After that, the Royal Court was moved
to Minas Anor in TA 1640, which after Minas Ithil fell in the hands of the
Black Enemy, was renamed Minas Tirith. Minas Ithil was thereafter called
Minas Morgul. Currently, Gondor only includes Anorien, Lebennin and Belfalas,
as Enedwaith was depopulated by great floods in TA 2912, and Ithilien was
deserted during the millenium following the fall of its chief city, Minas
Ithil. Calenardhon was largely depopulated by the Great Plague, and thereafter
given to the Rohirrim in TA 2510.
Notable places in Gondor:  Minas Tirith, Osgiliath, River Anduin,
  Ithilien, Anorien, the White Tower and the Fields of Pelennor.
