Message: 1221
From   : Cherek
Subject: PoT review #2
CC     : Gorboth and Carnak
Date   : Mon Jan  2 04:39:01 2017
Hi,
Here follows my review of the somewhat nerfed PoTs. This review will be shorter
and less detailed as I will only compare this version to the previous version
in areas were the changes are likely to have a big impact.

To summarize the changes for Carnak and Gorboth:
pbless (DL tank ability) has been made less effective.
pheal now costs a heart powder AND a chokecherry, instead of just the powder.
ptalon (main damage) deals slightly less damage for DW.

I of course used the same setup as in the previous test, same test player,
same EQ, same standing, etc.
 
As expected, with a less powerful pbless and more costly heal the DL 
PoT is no longer a super-tank. They're still a good tank, but it will be
far from certain the PoT will be the tank in a team. Actually, in most
cases you're probably better off healing a melee teammate and let them
tank, as it increases your healing powers when you do not need to have
an active pbless. And with the less effectve pbless the PoTs are no longer
as good, or better, tanks as a melee fighter which would have been quite
likely before. I suspect PoTs will only be tanks in a team when there is
no better option around.

Grinding solo in Qualinost still works fine, and a solo PoT will be able
to make good XP there, however with the new pbless you of course need to
heal more, and since heal now costs a herb too, you will burn through your
herb stock pretty quickly. Mana also becomes an issue and you may need to
pause now and then. I used about 10 chokecherries / room, so to 
sustain elf solo grind you will need a good herb supply, and of course
spend a lot of time herbing. You can of course charge up on soul gems
somewhere else, and then go elf-hunting, but even so, it's a big change
compared to before the "nerf", as I believe the previous version could have
killed elves basically 24/7. Now they will have to engage in other tasks
and/or prepare themselves in order to grind an elite area like this solo.
As it should be.

So, this is the biggest change compared to the previous version, and a good
one.

I think you solved both the two main issues with the DL in the old version.
Now, DL is no longer the clear tank in a team, and a solo DL is no longer the
best solo-grinder in the game. Good still, absolutely, but in my opinion not
too good.

You also made grinding while attentive, compared to mindless botting/scripting,
even more rewarding, since now I needed to experiement using pcurse as well
to be successful, and more spell-juggling means you need to be more active to
be successful, which I think is a good thing. And fun! New PoTs remind me of
the good parts of the old mages, which also rewarded activity. Of course the
old mages were totally OP, PoTs arent, but the need to juggle spells and be
active was a lot of fun, and me and others were sad when that part of
the MM guild was removed and turned into a guild that instead rewards  
scripting. Mages were made a lot less OP, which was good, but a big part of the
fun was lost in the process too. So I really really like this aspect with 
the new PoTs. It's a rare thing in guilds, and something I would like to see
a lot more of when designing guilds. So well done with that!
 
However, and this is a big one (as I mentioned when we spoke), the availability
of the chokecherry herb, as well as what you decide to do with the now static
Abanasinian and Solamnian plains will have a big impact on the "XP/hour" rate
a PoT can muster. Should the chokecherry be very rare, and/or the plains 
changed from completely static to more random, it'll be much harder and more
time consuming to keep large numbers. If it's fairly common and/or present in
static areas, it'll be much easier to script it, and thus the DL grinding
priest will be much better. Now, I know you dislike scripting, but remember
that if you make it very hard for the PoTs to get their most important
component, you leave them at a disadvantage vs other guilds who can easily
script their main components and collect huge numbers. Things like this are
probably not taken into consideration in the combat aid calculations, but they
have a big impact on actual gameplay. Especially when grinding. Which is what
players do most of the time of course.
 
To make a comparison, the old (current) PoTs main herb are the willow herbs
(beach willow, and grey willow are the varieties I think). Willow is used for
the ptalon, and to herb it I ran a script to collect them on the Abanasinian
plains. They don't grow in abundance, but the area is static so you can script
it easily, and even if you don't script you can gather them fairly quickly 
when you learn the locations of them. I found the number of willows to be
pretty reasonable, they're neither rare or common, you can always find them in
the same spots, but it still takes some time to gather a big supply. So, 
willows might be used as some type of guideline if you want. Or you could of
course just try it. Let Hollandjr herb chokecherries manually and/or using a
script, and see how much he can gather in an hour or so, then compare it to an
expected burn-rate of 10 chokecharrier per room for a legend PoT grinding in
Qualinost. Which is probably the most heal-heavy task they would attempt.

Now, moving on to the DW,
Not much has changed for the DW, except a slight reduction in ptalon power,
which I couldn't "feel". DW is still the obvious choice when you go out to
grind stuff that can't hurt you, or you team. Like for a legend, Kalaman
grinding.

I think the biggest change here will be for teams, since with the reduced
tanking abilities for the DL, the DW becomes a better choice for teams too, and
teams can chose to use the PoT as DL healer, DL healer/tank, or DW damage
dealer. This choice of course existed before the nerf too, but with DL no
longer an obvious tank, I think the choice will much more depend on situation,
what type of team you're in, and what you're grinding. DL is likely to be the
better choice still in many teams as DW power is dependent on that the team
only kills goodies. So for any type of Faerun, Avenir, Mithas or Terel troll
grind, DW won't be very useful. For grinding goodies in Krynn, in popular
areas like Kenders, Centaurs and Kalaman, the DW PoT is likely to be quite
useful for a team.

When it comes to boss-hunting, the DL remains the clear choice in most 
situations for their superior ability to keep themselves healed. As you
do not need the same amount of herbs for boss-killing as you do for 
continous grind, the changes won't have much impact on this so my previous
findings should still be good, except tanking will be slightly worse due
to pbless being worse. The heal is the main thing though for hunting big
stuff, not pbless, it it remains as good for this task even if you need some
herbs now.

Now, I haven't tested PVP after the change, but I do not think it is needed
either, as the changes made do not really affect PVP much, and our old results
should still be valid. A DL PoT is likely to outlast and beat most melee
fighters thanks to their heal. The increased cost does not change this fact
as long as the PoT keeps a reasonable supply of herbs. That change has the 
most effect on grinding than anything else, as mentioned above. The pbless
change is also unlikely to have much impact in a 1vs1 fight, just like in
an NPC boss fight the heal is the main thing that wins it for the DL PoT.
The DW PoT will most likely remain about as powerful in PVP as before, as the
change to ptalon was very slight, and no other changes were made.

Finally, I also compared the difference in damage output for the DW with
700 standing and 1200 standing (max). I am sure there IS a difference, but
it's not big enough to "feel" it. You'd have to time how long it takes
to kill stuff, and compare it. I am not sure that type of extensive testing is
needed. If the maths say higher standing does more damage, it does!

I don't think the differences are big enough to be easily noticable by the
players though, but I don't think that's bad. The current PoT players take
pride in running experiments on their abilities and writing lengthy reports
and books with statistical comparasions. I am sure they will enjoy trying
to figure out exactly how much standing matters.

So...
I like it!

I don't feel we need to do any major tweaks. Both DL and DW are useful, and
DL are no longer super-tanks. Now I am not the AoB, but based on my tests the
previous version really felt a bit OP, this one does not. It feels like a good
guild, and it should be good, it's an OCC+LAY guild after all. I have no doubt
the PoT players will love it, and have a lot of fun playing. I almost feel like
waking up Xxxxxx. Almost!
Cherek


Message: 1175
From   : Cherek
Subject: PoT testing report
CC     : Carnak and Gorboth
Date   : Thu Dec 15 15:50:24 2016


Hi,

WARNING! LONG FILE! I DID AN EXTENSIVE REVIEW AND WANTED TO GIVE A
DETAILED REPORT! READ ONLY WHEN YOU HAVE TIME!

This report is for Arman, but I CC'ed Carnak as well since he also
has tested PoTs. Feel free to agree or disagree with my findings Carnak.
I also CC'ed Gorboth since... well he is Gorboth and probably is 
interested in how the new guild is shaping up!:)

I've spent a lot of time testing PoTs now, so here is my report. I have 
decided to divide my test into three parts: Solo play PVE, Team play PVE, 
and PVP, each part is also divided into Dark Lady and Dark Warrior testing.
 
Test Setup
----------

Genea, human, Champion close to Legend. Which is about the size I was
on average when I was a PoT as a player.

Rank: High Priest for most of the test, then Nightmaster.
Standing: Between Greatly guided, guided and favorable. Which is about
the levels I used to have as a mortal too. It went up and down somewhat
during testing, which of course is natural for a player.

Avg stat: 170
Mental stats: INT, 212, WIZ, 189.
Guild XP: 82 million.
Align: Around -600.

EQ: Mightnight black platemail, black boots, great black skull, dragon
turtle shell, double morning-star / heavy steel club.

==================
PART 1 - SOLO PLAY
==================

DARK LADY
---------

GRINDING

Casual / Script-grinding, Kalaman
---------------------------------

Not using darkness, since it's not really needed for Kalaman,
but a smaller PoT would of course benefit from that.

Grinding in Kalaman using pscourge is quite nice. Not BDA-power
but far better than old PoTs and quite enjoyable. 

For the really casual slow-grind, simply doing pscourge is good
enough to get you around, with an active pbless not much will
be able to hurt you for sure.

While ptalon doesnt seem to do more damage then pscourge when in
Dark Lady form, you can still do ptalon, ptalon, pscourge, and repeat 
to speed things up, which definitely works quite well, and makes
grinding quite a bit quicker. Of course it consumes both mana and
ingredients, so it will be hard to keep it up forever, but with the
use of a soul gem it seems possible to sustain this type of grind
for quite some time.

War plains, Knights
-------------------

Without darkness:

The biggest teams does provide some fight, but since you basically
have unlimited heal as long as you got heart poweder, it does not 
matter. It takes a little time if you only use pbless/pscourge, but it's 
quite simple. To make it even easier/quicker killing off the rose
knight with ptalon proved to be a good strategy.

With darkness:

Since the knights dont assist each other in darkness, this obviously
is very easy. Even pretty small PoTs are likely to find success
on the plains using darkness. It takes very little effort to clean
the plains as a solo PoT using darkness.

Serious grinding, Elves in Qualinost
------------------------------------

Elves see in darkness, so darkness is useless here.

Solo-grinding in Qualinost is something a mage of this size
under the new system can do, but not easily and there is a lot of
pausing involved. (Unless the Nazguls got some super-spell I never
got as a mage). The old mages could do this easily of course, but 
they could kill anything easily really.

Using pheal and pscourge only I managed to grind Qualinost solo
quite successfully. Lots of healing, and it goes quite slowly, but
as long as you got heart powder it's possible to keep it up pretty
continously. Very few guilds could manage this solo at Champion
level in my experience.

Using pheal, pbless and pscourge it worked even better, the solo-grind 
for a dakr lady PoT is very good. It's not that quick, but the ability
to solo very large enemies makes them really good. I have a hard 
time seeing ANY other guild manage Qualinost this well at Champion 
level.

Throwing in a ptalon here and there speeds things up as well, 
although I found it better to focus the mana on healing and let
pscourge do the damage.

A BDA script grinding Kalaman/Centaurs etc _might_ do more XP/hour
because of the speed they kill, but it's probably a close match with
a PoT soloing Qualinost. It's possible the PoT wins too, their solo
grind is pretty awesome. The fine part about PoTs is that your 
success depend on being active (or having a very good script that
switches between heal and scourge automatically when needed). Of
course since humans arent tireless, but scripts are, the melee
scripter might win the XP battle in the end, but the PoT probably had
more fun! And I love things that promote active play.

For me, I found PoT grinding a lot more fun than any other type of
grinding I have tried. Except the old mages (and partly the new ones), 
which also relied/rely on being active and managing different spells.

Something weird though, when grinding in Qualinost, I became
extremely panicky after a few rooms, which made me wimp around, 
making it hard to actually sustain the grind without taking breaks
to become more secure. The panicking was the only thing holding me
back from cleaning out room after room with little or no breaks. Not 
sure if it's related to spells, the area, or anything else? Any idea?
I never noticed this as a "real" player in this area.

As you said, this is most likely due to me missing so many normal 
hits against these big enemies. Some time of calming spell might be a
good idea, like you suggested. Although it makes no sense to start
panicking at all since I am easiy winning the fight, even if I dont
hit with my weapon. Perhaps a global issue with spellcasters, and
panic is created with melee fighters in mind?

Serious grinding, Terel trolls
------------------------------

Trolls see in darkness, so darkness is useless here.

Having had success with basically every type of grind so far, I
decided on a challenge. Killing evil creatures outside Krynn,
something that should fit a PoT quite badly in theory.

As expected, this proved to be more difficult. It IS doable to solo
the Terel trolls as a PoT, which at champion level is really good,
though since you get so much more benefits from fighting good-aligned
creatures, it's unlikely PoTs would bother with fighting evils
unless in a team. Which is good imho! 

Pscourge, pcurse together with a lot of healing gets it done though,
but it's slow, and you take a lot of damage since pbless doesnt work 
on evils, so you will spend quite a bit of mana. It's definitely
possible to grind through the troll caves alone though, so it's still not
bad, just not as great as killing in for example Qualinost.

Bonus test:

Tried to grind undead zombies and skeletons using pheal
-------------------------------------------------------

pheal seems to have no effect on the undeads in Calia? It says they
covulse in pain, but it does not seem to actually do any damage? 
Perhaps you need to look into this and see if it actually works like
it should? 

As you know we tested this later, and it seems to work fine after
all.

GEAR HUNTING / BOSS-KILLING

Orc Captain, Emerald
--------------------

Known to be quite tough for melee figthers, but easier for spellcasters.

Killing the orc captain in Emerald solo was a simple matter as the
great healing really made it easy. I only used pheal and pscourge and
was able to kill him in about 5 minutes. For a player of champion
level this is very good. Most melee fighters would struggle with this
for sure.

Yeti, Ice Wall
--------------

One of the hardest and most dangerous bosses in the game. The old mages
could solo him (of course:)), and the new ones can too, although it comes
with a risk for them as well as far as I know. Not sure if other guilds,
and/or really huge players can do it solo. Most players definitely cannot,
and would not dream to even try.

First attempt using pheal, pcurse and pscourge I got him down to barely
alive at best, but eventually my mana ran out, and had I been a real player
I would have died. So, it's close! 

With a friend it would definitley be doable. That is of course, unless a
dragon arrives, then it might be tricky, but probably doable.

Second attempt, using pheal, pcurse and loaded up with athly mana herbs
and the knowledge from the first fight. Confident I was going to kill him
this time a dragon arrives just minutes into the fights, which would have 
meant certain death for a real player. Ouch.

Third attempt, got him to death door. However, I became extremely panicky
and tried to wimp (which isnt possible at the Yeti), but the effect was
that I lost standing when trying to wimp, and eventually the yeti had healed
up enough that it was not going to work, so I had to abort. Without the
panicking I most likely would have killed it this time. I tried to use some
ptalons this time too, but they almost always fail or have little effect
so the best strategy seems to be to keep him cursed, heal yourself, and
rely on pscourge doing more damage than the yeti can heal. Which will be
a coin toss. And of course pray no dragons arrive.

I did a final attempt using ppain, but since it lasts so short time
and comes with a pretty long cooldown, I was not more successful this
time around either. I actually died this time as the Yeti got in a
series of hits in a row before I was able to heal myself, or save
myself using wizard transport.

So, a solo priest does better than most would agains the Yeti,
and a more skilled player with more trinkets and tricks than just the
PoT spells and "good but not great"-EQ would probably be able to do it, it's
dangerous though, if a dragon arrives you're most likely toast. So PoTs stand 
up very well against the Yeti, but lacks the firepower to realistically solo
the Yeti without too much risk. 

Onyx, Black Dragon on Mithas
----------------------------

Using soapweed and turtle shell for acid protection.

Nope. No chance really. Got it to somewhat hurt, but the dragon was
very good at resisting pcurse. Ptalon was useless since it's very evil,
and pscourge hardly made a dent, only mildly irritating it at best.

Not doable. It's possible to last quite long healing yourself, so in
a team with a melee fighter doing damage this would be easy, alone with
an evil dragon resisting your damage spells, not so much!

Emerald, Green Dragon outside Flotsam
-------------------------------------

Again, this wasn't easy. Thankfully the dragon was not able to resist
pcurse, which made it possible to kill it. It took a good 10 minutes 
though, and a lot of healing and almost all mana. Doable solo but not
easy.

DARK WARRIOR
------------

GRINDING

Casual / Script-grinding, Kalaman
---------------------------------

Not using darkness, since it's not really needed for Kalaman,
but a smaller PoT would of course benefit from that.

This type of grind is better in this form, as you have higher
weapon skill using phammer, and ptalon does more damage so it's
more useful to throw in a talon here and there between your
pscourges. Healing is rarely needed, and the healing power you get 
as dark warrior is enough for Kalaman, should you need it.

You can't really match melee fighters in killing speed, but you're
definitely closer to them than in dark lady form. It's a reasonable
form of solo grind that I am sure many priest will enjoy, and definitely
more fun than the old PoTs.

War plains, Knights
-------------------

Without darkness:

Hmm. Close call! With poor healing your health goes down quicker of course,
but you make more damage too. I'd probably stick to Dark Lady if I dont have
darkness though I think, since it's simpler and consumes less components
and mana, and while you kill one room quicker as Dark Warrior, continued
grind is better Dark Lady as you spend less mana and sustain your health
better.

With darkness:

That's more like it. Without the ability to assist each other you
take a lot less damage, and need your heal less. They do rescue each
other even in darkness, but as Dark Warrior you do more damage quicker
and once they rescue each other they're pretty hurt so you can finish
them off fairly quick.

So with darkness I'd probably pick Dark Warrior and do the "pscourge, 
ptalon, ptalon" and repeat combo, of course with pbless active, and
probably using a soul gem to keep component use lower, since using a lot
of talons are pretty component-demanding. But if I don't feel like being
super-active and/or want to save componentent when grinding I'd probably
pick  Dark Lady for war plains even in darkness.

Serious grinding, Elves in Qualinost
------------------------------------

It was quickly obvious that dark lady does a lot better here. While
you do kill the elves quicker with the better ptalon, you take more
damage with the weaker pbless, but it's the weaker pheal that does
it, you simply can't sustain the grinding very long. And constantly
using ptalon eats up your mana pretty quick too. Not a good idea to
go here as a dark warrior.

Serious grinding, Terel trolls
------------------------------

As expected, dark warrior is inferior to dark lady here as well.
The lack of strong heal makes this a very hard task. Actually going
here solo as dark warrior is pretty useless, you can kill a few
trolls at best but will need to rest constantly and use your poor
heal a lot, which uses up a lot of mana. Warrior PoTs do best
staying away.

GEAR HUNTING / BOSS-KILLING

Orc Captain, Emerald
--------------------

No issues here. Just go in an ptalon/pscourge him to death. You suffer
some damage, but you also kill him quicker. I'd prefer to be in Dark
Warrior form since it's quicker.

Yeti, Ice Wall
--------------

No chance at all as expected. Dark Lady is the only way to go here,
without pcurse or a good heal, you don't stand a chance whatsoever.

Onyx, Black Dragon on Mithas
----------------------------

No chance at all as expected. Dark Lady gives you at least a chance
to tank some even if you do little damage, Dark Warrior is completely
toothless.

Emerald, Green Dragon outside Flotsam
-------------------------------------

No chance here either. See above.

=================
PART 2 - TEAM PVE
=================

Well, I think perhaps after our finding in grinding and PVP, it's
obvious enough that Dark Lady PoT is the best tank in the game, and a 
PoT would be highly popular in any team where a tank is needed. If all
you need is pure firepower since nothing can hurt you, then PoT isn't
your best teammate, but if you ever need tanking skills, which you often
do for the better XP areas, get a PoT.

I can test this too, but perhaps we should wait until you have made 
some tweaks, that I think you're already planning?

=================
PART 3 - SOLO PVP
=================

Since you were present during our test I dont think I need to say much more
here, and I also sent you a letter that explained what happened after you 
left.

For Gorboth and Carnak, I'll just briefly mention that i went up against
Zignurjr (BDA / Blademaster, holy align) in Krynn, and beat him so badly
he almost wanted to cry a bit and then apply to PoTs and kill everyone in
the game. Which uhm, probably proves how good PoTs can be in PVP.

CAN be that is. I beat him badly both as dark lady and dark warrior when
he had no magic protection. When he used an armour with general magic
protection, and an anti-life potion from Emerald, the fight way very even
(and took forever) when I was dark warrior. I just barely won just before
I had used up all my mana.

As dark lady I kicked his butt badly still, it just took a bit longer when
he had protection. He couldn't hurt me of course since I got pbless, pcurse
and pheal.

So warrior PoTs are super deadly against goodies who does not have magic
protection, and evenly matched if they do. Dark lady PoTs aren't very
deadly in PVP, but they basically can't lose either. 1vs1 against a knight
the knight has absolutely ZERO chance to win, but they will probably be
able to escape alive as dark lady PoTs are very strong, but not that lethal.

===========================================
END OF TESTING, ON TO CONCLUSIONS AND IDEAS
===========================================

SPELL THOUGHTS
--------------

Note that I will only mention the spells where I have something to
say, for spells not mentioned, I think all is well.

ppain

I don't see anyone using this spell much. Even using a very good
knife it lasts a very short time, and has a quite long cooldown.
I don't really see where being able to stun something for 10-15
seconds is useful. I think this spell could be removed. Or, it
should be upgraded. For it could be made to last a minute or more,
but come with a VERY long cooldown? Like, several hours? I don't
know, but as it is now you're better off with pcurse, pbless and
pheal and those 10-15 seconds of stun seems rather unneccessary.
Possible in a team with 3+ High ranking priests it could be
useful, but such teams are probably quite unlikely. 

I also tried to use this in PVP after you had left, and sure enough
it works, although since the duration is so slow, you're still better
off just cursing.

pbless

This is a very good spell. However, since it's so very good it 
turns priest into tanks. And I am not sure that was the intention?
Or was it? Scops are tanks, which I've always found odd. Maybe it
fits their theme (I know little of it), but in my eyes clerics 
are not tanks. And since pmirage is a "move behind" ability I am
thinking you did not see them as tanks either? With their superior
heal and bless though, they will most likely end up being tanks in
a team. And very good tanks too. Probably the best in the game. 

If we don't want priests as tanks, perhaps pbless should be a spell
that only can be cast on someone else? Of course limitation needs to
be in place. For example the target must be evil, and be in a team
with you. Also, only one pbless can be maintained, and it breaks if
you leave the team, perhaps even if you or the target leaves the
room.

It might need to be downgraded though, if we make it possible to cast
on others, as on someone with already superior tanking abilities it
might just be too good. When cast on a priest it makes up for their
poor fighting skills, but if you already have sup guru and another
dodge/evade it might make them almost immortal with the current
power level?

Anyway, that's one idea. The main problem I see is thank priest will
become tanks if it is released as it is now.

pmirage

Well it's nice, but if PoTs end up being the tank, it probably wont be
used that much, at least not by big PoTs. Of course smaller PoTs teaming with
bigger players and doesnt tank will find it useful, or if you're in the dark
warrior form, or want to switch tank in PVP. So it's definitely a very useful
spell in certain sitations even if PoTs are tanks, but it would become even
more useful if PoTs tank less.

ptalon

I wonder if this one should simply be unavailable for Dark Lady? As
it is I think Dark Lady is overall the better choice, but making talon
Dark Warrior only might even things out?

pslow

If you dont want to make ptalon warrior only, perhaps pslow should be?
Since it's a PVP ability, it would make warrior an even better choice when 
a priest wants to kill someone. Since warrior is also more vulnerable, it
would make sense. If you want to kill someone, you also need to risk 
something, and playing warrior is riskier than playing dark lady, which
almost makes you unkillable unless mega-ganked.

pgem

This is a fun spell. Balancing it right will be tough tho. I wonder
if it's too powerful right now? Killing centaurs charges it pretty
quickly saving me a lot of components. Without players actually using it
for extended period in "real" play it's hard to know though. Perhaps
it's one of those things we should start low, and upgrade if it's not
used, instead of risk making it too powerful from the start?

ADDITIONAL FINDINGS AND SUGGESTIONS
-----------------------------------

Generally I encountered very few issues. No bugs or anything major 
really, and no typos spotted, although I have not looked for them
especially. But here are some things:

- When you type "spells", it would be good to see which spells you
can cast in your current aspect. For example some type of * on spells 
you can't cast when in Dark Lady, and likewise when in the Dark Warrior 
aspect. I know you see it when you check detailed spell info, but it
would be nice to see in the overview which ones are available and which
ones are not. I kept forgetting that all the time.

- When your pbless runs out you get the message that "You are no longer
protected by the blessings of Takhisis" which is fine. However a person
standing next to you also see that "Genea is longer protected by the blessings 
of Takhisis", which seems illogical. How would a bystander know this?
I think either the message for bystanders should be removed, or changed
to something they COULD notice. Like a ripple in the air, an involuntarily
shudder, or... well whatever you feel like.:)

- Why do you have to do "phelp topics", cant just "phelp" lead to directly
to the main help menu?

- This is weird: 
"You feel new health infusing your body."
"The elf heart pumps one final beat before it crumbles.""

What heart? It's heart powder, not a heart. A remnant of the old
pre-powder spells I assume? Should probably remove or redo that
message?

- If you try to ptalon a knight NPC that is currently charging you get
this message:

"You feel a divine force protecting this being, your attack fails."

That's an odd message to get? Should it not say something about
them being too far away instead? I dont know if this is in Knight
or PoT code, but it's an odd message. I think I've seen it when playing
as a mortal too, and not as a PoT, so I suspect it's a thing with the
NPCs.

- Perhaps we could list the standings levels in the help files?
Or should this be a mystery? I've forgotten the levels since
I was in the guild, and now I struggle to know which order
the standings are. Is favorable better than guided for examble?
It's not always clear if you've gone down or up in standing, if
you missed the message, which is quite easy to miss.

- Do we really need the options to have NO aspect? I have not tried
playing without aspect, but as I understand the difference is you get
"decent" power in all spells? No clear strength or weakness. I kind
of think two different aspects are hard enough to balance and make
both playable, a third option will make it even harder to make sure
they are all used, and it's more risky one, or two, will end up 
being inferior to the others. I also like giving the player a choice
which strangths and weaknesses they want to have, instead of giving
them a "way out", not having to pick. I suggest remove the unaspected
option, and let your choice "stick" between logins.

Now, you explained to me after I wrote this that unaspected is weaker
in all spells as I understood it? But it gives access to all spells.
Still, I think it's better to now have it. I don't see why you would
ever use it? In which cirucumstances would it be useful? I can't think
of one.

CONCLUSION AND DARK LADY vs DARK WARRIOR THOUGHTS
-------------------------------------------------

GRINDING SOLO

If I were a PoT at champion or above size, and access to pheal and
pscourge, I'd live in Qualinost, since I find it more fun than the
casual/script type of grind. I'd definitely use the Dark Lady aspect.

However, if I wanted to just lazily grind, while semi-attentive, for
example at work (usually with the help of a script), like a lot of
players enjoy, then I'd pick the Dark Warrior form and stick to stuff
that does not require healing. In my case the popular Kalaman-Centaurs-
Kendermore grinding route. You could of course script Qualinost too, but
perhaps not something that many players would feel comfortable doing,
since it would require a more advanced script. I like that for most
players being active is promoted by providing the best XP rewards for
non-scripting activities.

PoTs may actually be unrivalled in the game (maybe together with mages) 
when it comes to solo-grinding big stuff as Dark Lady. Fluffy/Zignur who 
has more mage experience, especially the new mages, was pretty sure PoTs
are better than mages, and he is probably right.

So in short, if you're fighting stuff that does not hurt you much, pick
Dark Warrior. If you're fighting stuff that probably is a little too
big for you and can hurt you, it's still possible to grind in the Dark 
Lady form and will be very rewarding.

Which form is best will depend on the size of the player, and their
preferred playstyle, and of course which enemies are in their reach, and
gives the best benefit at your level. For solo grind I am pretty confident
both Dark Lady and Dark Warrior will be used, depending on circumstances
and style of play. Serious grinders would probably never use Dark Warrior
though, but they will love Dark Lady.

BOSSES / GEAR-HUNTING

Dark Lady PoTs can fairly easily take down large bosses that have little
magic protection, but struggle mightily with considerably smaller bosses 
_with_ magic protection. Especially those of evil align. Just like it 
should be. Thanks to the very good healing abilities it is possible
to stay in the fight long enough to slowly but surely grind down most
enemies. But not all.

Dark Warrior PoTs can take down smaller bosses, and those with little or
no magic protection quicker than Dark Lady, especially good-aligned
bosses.

Which is better? It depends. If you're looking to go on a big long EQ-
hunt collecting as much as you can, I'd pick Dark Lady, as the increased
healing makes you more versitile.

If you on the other hand have only a limited amount of time to play and
want to go on a quick hunt for a couple of bosses with little magic
protection, I'd pick Dark Warrior, since you can take them down quicker
and move on to the next one on your list.

Dark Lady is clearly the best overall option for boss-killing though, and
most likely the one that will be used most.

SUMMARY
-------

Playing the new PoTs is a lot more fun than the old ones. Not only
because they are A LOT more powerful, but also because it requires
you to be active and juggle spells to really take advantage of their
abilities. Skilled scripters can script anything of course, but for
most players, activity is rewarded, which is great. I wish we had more
such guilds. Old mages were the same, unfortunately the new ones are
less about rewarding activity.

Overall, I think  I would play Dark Lady more often than Dark Warrior, 
but both are useful I think, and it depends on your playstyle, and how 
much time/how attentive you can be, which one to use. I do think we
might need to do some tweaks, as mentioned above, to make Dark Warrior
a little more useful since I predict Dark Lady will be the "default"
choice for most priests, and I think it would be better if there were
more reasons to pick Dark Warrior, to make that choice a little harder.

PoTs pretty much crushes knight in PVP no matter what. The only way
it even becomes interesting is if the priest is Dark Warrior and the
knight has magic resistance, especially life magic. Getting a few
potions from Emerald to carry around in case you encounter a PoT is
not hard though, so knights should actually be able to do pretty well
against a dark warrior PoT after all. Of course, a Dark Lady pot is
pretty much unkillable and would kick a knight's butt every time they
fight, which probably won't be that fun for the knight... even if they
the dark lady PoT will struggle to actually KILl the knight, it's still
no fun to have no chance.

As long as PoTs got healing though, that's how it's gonna be I think?
Hard for someone without healing to beat someone who has, especially
the powerful PoT heal. Rangers and Scops are also very hard to kill I 
believe.

When it comes to teaming I haven't actually tested, but as I said and
Zignur confirmed there's no doubt. The priest will be the tank in the
team, and will 99% of the time be in dark lady aspect, and a very
valued member of any team.

So...

All in all. Dark Lady is awesome. A little too awesome probably. Of
course mages are awesome too... and they are deemed balanced so... yeah.
But this verion of PoTs might need some nerfing. Although, remember
that PoTs are just awesome in certain situation, and quite poor in others.
You have to fight something good, preferably in Krynn, to really be any
good. You're pretty rubbish otherwise, but the nice heal saves you, and
you can still be useful to your friends even outside Krynn, fighting
evils, but powerful, no.

So... that ends my short little review.:)

Cherek

Message: 1178
From   : Carnak
Reply  : PoT testing report
To     : Arman, Cherek and Gorboth
Date   : Fri Dec 16 02:29:45 2016

Hey, Ive already stated most of my thoughts on the guild, but here
goes.

Test Parameters:
----------------

Geneb, legend gnome

Ranks varied, most of the time played was as a High Priest.

Guild Stat: 173
Stat average: 174
Stats: 158, 174, 177, 197, 196, 145

Equipment: Midnight black platemail, flowing ermine-lined robe,
great black skull, silvanesti tower shield and black spiked mace
(verminaards midnight).

Playability:
------------

The guild is loads of fun to play, if this entered the game, Im
not sure I could contain myself from playing every now and then.

As most of it has already been said, I feel like I can only sit
here and agree or disagree. 

The Dark Lady and Dark Warrior aspect choices are great, the
middle ground should probably be removed, and the spell lists
should be fixed to only show the spells of each aspect.

I popped in with my own priest after having tested it to compare
and the difference is like night and day. The scourge ability
actually makes the guild useful to some degree in combat.

I havent tested team based PvE and I didnt really find the need,
soloing as a Dark Lady is simply too easy (as it often is for
tanks). PvP also seemed out of the question as it would be
difficult to set up a good simulation for it.

My experienced with NPCs were much the same as Cherek, the 
ones with resistance and evil alignment hampered the guild
quite a bit. Those that are both evil and resistant were a
pain, even closing in on impossible targets.

The soul gems make the Dark Warrior a viable damage option and
would likely not be overly useful for the Dark Ladies (as the
heal doesnt use an abundance of herbs like the Talon). It is
difficult to say if its overpowered without an extended test
in team situations, it would however be used by people when
they team, and then charged up again by going solo on the
centaur/kender/rebel/kalaman (script) round.

I didnt find any direct exploits, it seems all of the old ones
have been removed when converting to the new system. (aside
from already reported drop room in the planetravel)

Changes:
--------

pPain: This really needs a proper improvement, either reducing
the cooldown or upgrading the stun duration. Possible changes
could also include removing the cooldown and reducing its future 
effects on the same target. Like a stacking resistance or so.

pBless: Its a good ability and I wouldnt say it is unbalanced
per-se. The question is if we want PoTs to become tanks or not.
If it remains, it may be worth considering increasing its mana
drain or lowering its effects a bit. If the tank-ability is an
unwanted side-effect, I'd say, use Chereks suggestion of being
able to only cast it on others, or remove it as its difficult
to balance casting it on others. (It could be replaced by my
old suggestion of age-control buff, which lowers int/wis and
distributes it to combats, or lowers combats and distributes
it to mentals, depending if your target grows older or younger.
There are likely a multitude of other options in case this isnt
wanted.)

pGem: Possible change, if its found to be overpowered, make it
so that its charged while its in your amulet, instead of while
being held and give it a %chance to be used instead of
components.

Conclusion:
-----------

I gave my insight at the beginning, before I began testing, it
was a fairly accurate assessment. If I were to play this guild,
I would have been a Dark Lady tank. Though something that did
surprise me was that it felt like the mana drain was low. This
may be due to the new system with which I am unfamiliar and
the fact that I only used scourge, bless and heal most of the
time.

The heal + bless is a good combination, but honestly, I'd be
a tank even if they didnt have the pBless.

Aside from Tanking, I dont see any glaring balance issues with
the guild. This may be due to the fact that they arent exactly
globe trotters, their damage is at its best passable outside
of Krynn.


This was all of which I could think, and reading Chereks mail
(which was ridiculously long) a third time to find more seems
like a headache waiting to happen ;) So I will call it here,
hoping its of use.

Regards,
Carnak




