Title: Early enrolment, School of High Magic
From: Antimodes
Text: (follows)

Magic. 

For the mortals of Genesis, wielding and controlling the powers of 
magic has been a focus and fascination for many. Adventurers have 
sought out the power of the elementals, Dark Lords and Goddesses, 
holy immortals and bardic inspiration. Yet in Krynn, magic has
been a source of suspicion and distrust by the noble, common and
peasantry since the Cataclysm.

Blamed - unfairly? - for the misfortunes and dark times common for 
the last few centuries, wizards of Krynn long ago withdrew in to 
their towers, awaiting a time of tolerance for those who wield 
magic.

That time, my friends, is now.

While still viewed with distrust, magicians are again viewed as a
curiosity rather than a target for burning at the stake. Mostly.

And so the Orders of High Sorcery will be scouring the lands for 
those who have magic in their blood. Those prepared to give of 
themselves completely with no promises of power, enlightenment or
riches. Only an offer of opportunity.

The opportunity of apprenticeship at the School of High Magic.

The opportunity to perhaps one day be viewed suitable to take the 
Test. To pull on the robes of a Wizard of High Sorcery.

Between the 8th day of the month of December from 23.00 local time 
until 04:00 of the 9th I will be coming to the Tower of the Realms 
in Sparkle to interview aspirants. 

Those found suitable I will escort to the School of High Magic and 
provide the necessary introduction to Master Theobald. Th will 
be the first enrolled to the school, the first to begin their 
training on the path of sorcery. 

Following early enrolment, an announcement will be made here on 
the common board outlining when the school is to be opened to the 
broader public. Those willing to venture to the school north of
Solace may do so at that point, and may enroll if they meet the
expectations of Theobald.

Aspirants be forewarned. A wizard's soul is forged in the crucible 
of magic. You choose to go voluntarily into this fire.

The blaze might well destroy you... but if you survive, every blow
of the hammer will serve to shape your being. Every drop of water
wrung from you will temper and strengthen your soul. You will be
changed, a champion of magic, and a force to be reckoned with.

Regards, 

Antimodes, High Mage of the Order of the White Robes
