The Origin of the Pantheon:
 
Many types of living beings have existed in the creation made by the
creator, some small, others large; some powerful, others weak; some
who live only days, others who are immortal; some thrive, while others
disappear completely. This is the story of one small group.
 
They were created by the creator, or perhaps they evolved from the
creation, no one is sure. They are powerful beings, able to manipulate
the natural world. Few in number, and almost never reproducing, they
were created immortal, at least without the doom of a natural death.
 
They kept to themselves mostly, the created world their playground.
With mortals they rarely bothered, looking down on them as foul vermin
not much better than rats. Proud they were, and full of themselves,
believing themselves to be of the highest order of creation, though
rarely did they see the creator.
 
As aeons passed and mortals developed, they began to notice the mortals
worshipping and glorifying various other beings like themselves, as
well as the creator and her children. They became envious that honor
and worship was not given to them, and set out to subdue the simple
mortals as their servants, at least some of them.
 
To a primitive group of people they made themselves known, appearing
before them and performing miraculous acts. They awed the mortals, and
instructed the mortals to worship them. In return, they did favors
and blessed those mortals they wished, and did harm to those they
didn't. At times some would become bored, and abandon the mortals for
a while, but eventually they would return, the hunger for mortal
worship insatiable. Into a great culture these mortals grew, as they
worshipped the beings they called "gods", collectively, the Pantheon.
 
The creator saw what was happening, and became angry that these creations,
though powerful and immortal, should accept the worship due only to her
and those she had appointed. The creator said to the Pantheon, "Accursed
are you, for you take the glory which is not yours. You make yourselves
like the creator, and have these mortals worship you in your conceit.
Therefore, this is the punishment you shall have: you shall continue
as you are, as long as the mortals worship you. As soon as there are
no mortals left who acknowledge you, you shall disappear! The very pleasure
you seek shall no longer be pleasure only, but the force which sustains
your very existence! And so it shall be, that your days are numbered, for
I will allow other mortals to descend upon your followers, destroying the
temples they have built for you, and scattering them, that they might forget
you." This the creator said and left them.
 
After some time, the pronouncement of the Creator began to come to pass,
and hordes of "infidel" mortals descended upon the civilization who
worshipped the Pantheon. Those who weren't slaughtered were often taken
away into slavery, and into other forms of worship, or no worship at all.
As the civilization began to disappear, so did some of the Pantheon.
Most wailed in agony, crying loud to the creator who did not hear, but
doing little to slow their own destruction, as the number of the faithful
dwindled.
 
Desperate for survival, three of the Pantheon concocted a plan: they would
move a remnant of the faithful to another land, where they would be safe
from attack by infidels. There, they would nurture the faithful mortals,
and help them to flourish, saving their own existence. A fourth of the
Pantheon desired to join them, but was rejected.
 
And so these three, later to be called the Tritheon, carried out their
plan. To a new land (Calia) they brought their faithful, and lead them to an
isolated valley where the civilization would be saved, and thus their
existence assured. The fourth who was rejected (Dephonia), discovered
the location of the remnant, and attracted followers of her own. Thus was
born the city of mortals now called Argos, and the religion which they
practice.
 
After a time, the Creator saw the trickery of the four, and came to them,
and said, "What is this deception which you have done? Do you think
these actions will save you, or go unpunished?" And the four fell down
before the Creator, and begged her to spare them. Mercifully, the Creator
softened her heart, and said "Very well, this group I shall allow to
flourish for a while under your protection. But it shall come to pass,
that I shall call forth one of your faithful, and will reveal the truth
to him, and he will be my spokesmen to your people, and reveal the truth
to them. Those who follow him I shall bless; and if any remain faithful
unto you four, you may have them." With this, the Creator left them.
 
In but a few years after this, after the founding of Argos with its
temples to the three, and the founding of the temple to the fourth
nearby (as her followers were cast out of the city), the prophet of
the creator who as promised was born. He received revelations of truth
from the Creator and her messengers, and he began to teach the truth
to the people of Argos. But the Tritheon stirred up anger against this
"false" prophet amongst the people, and like the followers of Dephonia,
the people cast out the followers of the prophet. He gathered his
followers around him, and retreated into the mountains (or to an
island). In his old age, he selected six of his followers, whom he
asked the Creator to bless, and his prayers were answered. Great
powers were given to these seven, as they proclaimed the truth of the
Light, the creator of the universe, to their followers. These seven
became known of as the Illuminati, the enlightened ones. As each
approached death, the creator took them into a supernatural form of
immortal life. Those who remained developed into an Order of priests
who worship the Light, and through the intercession of the Illuminati,
channel the power of the Light to bring the truth to the world.
**
**
