   3.2.2 Since Argos was an isolated culture, unknown to the rest of the
         lands, the benefits of their teaching and knowledge, imported
         from their foreign origin, were not available outside their
         valley.
   3.2.3 DELETE ALTOGETHER :)
 
   3.3.5 The Argosians worship their three dieties, called the
         Tritheon, a religion they brought from their distant homeland.
         Worship is centered around the three temples of the city,
         each of which has its own religious Order. The religion and
         its Orders have always played a central role in the culture,
         government and history of the city.
 
   4.4   DELETE
         Argos was first settled 100 years after the Dim Times began,
         and it was another 50 years or so before a stable monarchy
         was established. There is nothing in the history of Argos
         about an attack from outsiders...the city was unknown to
         outsiders until recently.
         From what I can tell, the Confederation is roughly 20 years
         old, which means that Argos was settled about 280 BC
         (Before Confederation)
 
Suggest adding:
   4.6.1.4 The remnant of a foreign culture covertly navigated its way
           through the battles of the warlords, and settled on an
           island in a river of a secluded valley, seeking the isolation
           which would strengthen and preserve its unique culture.
           This settlement, first called Tritheonopolis, soon came to
           be known as Argos.
 
   7.54 "..cover in the forest around Argos"
        The Pack should not know that the city of Argos exists, so perhaps
        a different description could be made, or something like "they
        almost discovered Argos", etc. The way it reads now, seems like
        everyone knew where the "forests around Argos" is.
 
   15.3.1
       The happy couple ho in Argos. It seems Caliana is still
       around, so if we keep the suggestion from a previous note,
       Argos is nothing more than a new story told by a strange man
       (Alexis) who has visited. Might want them to honeymoon elsewhere,
       or at least mention something like "...honey mooned in the
       newly discovered city of Argos."
