Kretos - leader of the rebellion
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Kretos was born in 267 AT, the son of a high-ranking military official.
He was trained by the priests of Arxes in the martial arts, and was
also indoctrinated by their strong isolationist stance and their
belief that the city would be better ruled by the religious orders
as it had been so long ago.
 
Kretos eventually entered the military, and thanks to the influence
of his father and the Arxesian priests, rose to the rank of Stratarchas,
the high commander of all the forces of the city. He was known for his
charasmatic and magnetic character, as well as his military genious.
He was idolized by most in the military.
 
Kretos strongly opposed the movement by King Cosmopolitus to make
contact with the outside world. Argos had been founded to preserve
the cultural identity of a collapsing civilization through isolation,
and Kretos agreed with many that the time was not right to break the
seclusion. Ignoring Kretos and other isolationists, Cosmopolitus
ordered and expedition and finally a road built to connect Argos to
the outside world. When the road finally went over the mountains,
believed to be the "divine" border of Argos, Kretos decided to lead
a rebellion to overthrow the monarcy and stop construction of the
road before all was lost.
 
Kretos started his rebellion with many of the military officers, secretly
supported by many amongst the religious orders, especially that of
Arxes. To his surprise, more than half of the rank-and-file soldiers
remained loyal to the throne, along with most of the population, and
Kretos and his rebels were driven out of the city into the woods.
 
The exact whereabouts, activity and strength of Kretos and his forces is
unknown, though rumor has it that he plans to ally with the Dephonians,
followers of an evil goddess expelled from Argos many years ago. It
is feared by loyalists that Kretos will cause great turmoil in the
very near future, as he still has many secret supporters in the city,
and will make a permanent name for himself in the history of Argos.
