Message: 2
From   : Rajak
Subject: ideas and such (forwarded)
Date   : Jul 21 1998

Author : Rajak
To     : Zima
CC     : Rajak
Date   : Jul 20 1998

I wasn't sure when you'd get back so I figured I would just go
ahead and send you more ideas as they came up. I put in a few 
emote ideas at the end too; if I can think of any more I'll be
sure to mail them to you (emotes are difficult to come up with!)  

Questions:
1. Within Khalakhor, is chaos roughly equivalent to evil, or does 
it mean nothing more than a lack of order?    

2. Was the kirk in Baile Ashlagh founded by the Solsheyderi in the 
age of rebirth?  Also, is the sequence of the windows within that
kirk significant in any way (eg. the first window marks the first 
of the nine) 


Ideas:
Spells in General - This isn't really a spell, but rather an idea
about the organization of the spells within the guild. One 
alternative to having the same spells given to each person as
he/she progresses in level would be to give them somewhat different
spells based on the person's affiliation to one of the Solsheyderi.
I'm not sure what the nature of this relationship could be; 
perhaps the saggart could see one of the nine as a patron.  In
any case, this organizational scheme would give each guild-member
a more specific focus based on whatever was appropriate to his
"patron" Solsheyderi.  But no one would be allowed to have all 
the spells available. For example, if you had a total of 25 spells 
within the guild, then this scheme could allow guildmembers to 
have a max total of 18, depending on which of the Solsheyderi he 
is under.  This could help with role-playing and could encourage 
players to learn more of the nine by requiring them to learn the 
name and history of the Solsheyderi he wishes to be under. 
For example, as a novishagh, all players would be essentially 
the same.  But once they became a full priest, they could be
allowed to dedicate themselves to one of the nine's teachings.
I'm not sure I did a very good job of explaining it (it sounds
a lot better in my head), so if you are interested and have any 
questions about it, just mail me.

Chains - This spell summons into exsistence a number of spectral
chains which wrap themselves around a target inhibiting his
movements.  More specifically, The chains could act by 
slowing the target down (such as negative live_i_quickness). Or 
alternatively they could wrap themselves around the legs (or a 
leg) and prevent the target from leaving the room.  The material
components could be a few links of a chain, blessed by the caster.

Tongues - I'm not really sure if this spell would be possible, 
but ideally, this spell would enable the caster to speak/understand
all spoken languages.  Maybe the best approach would be to have 
the spell simply raise the caster's language skill to sup guru.
Or, maybe this spell could be required to read some of the writings
of the faith, that are magical, or ancient, in origin (such as the
book in the abbey of kirk seanchan tor).

Heat or Corrode weapon/armour - The basic premise of this spell
is to affect an enemies weapons or armours in some way, though 
I'm not sure what would be the most fitting way to accomplish 
this.  One way could be to have the spell heat only weapons, or 
only armours.  In either case, the person wielding the affected 
weapon (or wearing the affected armour) would be able to still 
wield the weapon.  However, since the spell causes the weapon to 
become super-heated, the person wielding it would take damage
from it as long as he continues to wield it.  The only way to 
prevent this damage would be to unwield the weapon, or maybe even
drop it.  Another way this general idea could be carried out, 
though, would be to have the spell just break armours/weapons like
the melt spell.  In this case, the caster would reach out with 
a hand and touch the target's armour.  His very touch could cause
the armour to either degrade to the point of breaking or just rust
it into dust right then and there.

Vigilance - This spell would infuse the caster with energy, 
dispelling any fatigue and making the target more alert.  
Basically, the spell would increase the target's awareness (by
maybe 30 levels) and take away any current fatigue from the target.
In addition, the spell would prevent the target from suffering 
any fatigue for the spell's duration.  The material component 
could be a stick of incense (or maybe a candle) that's lit.

Vigor - This spell would channel some of Maighal's strength to
the caster, fortifying him against all danger. This would 
increase his con a great deal (perhaps 60) and maybe increase 
his strength or discipline by a smaller number.  The spell could
also make it impossible for the caster to be stunned, for the 
duration of the spell.  A possible component for this spell is
a shamrock that has been placed within the hands of the statue of 
Maighal.

Calm/Courage - This spell would grant a kind of harmony or peace
of mind upon its target.  The spell would erase any worries or 
fears, and would keep the person calm for a certain amount of 
time.  Essentially this spell would remove any panic the target
may be suffering from, and also prevent the target from suffering
any panic for 5-10 minutes.  The component for this spell could
be a smooth pebble taken from the bottom of the Sora river (or the
fountain in the garden).

Wound - This spell would increase a creature's susceptibility
to injuries, causing a mere scratch to become a much more 
serious wound.  'Wound' would double any damage the target takes, 
regardless of the source.  I think it would be a little too 
powerful if the spell only had a duration though, so it might be 
better to have a cap on the amount of damage this spell can do.
For example, the spell could do a maximum of 500 points of
damage (which would mean the target would first have to take 500
points of damage).  

Cleanse - Through this spell, the caster summons forth the
'cleansing fires' of the Ardaugh.  It would summon an aura of 
holy fire around the target that would burn creatures of evil or
chaos.  This aura would stick to the target for a certain amount 
of time - perhaps about 1-2 minutes.  During that time, the fires
would damage the target much like a poison (eg. 100 points of 
damage every 10 seconds or so) However, unlike a poison, this 
spell coould not be cured by a 'cleanse poison' spell.  The only 
way to get rid of the aura would be through the use of a dispel
magic spell.  Another way to approach this spell would be to 
have the aura damage anyone, regardless of alignment.  In this
case, the fire could be extinguished through the use of water -
maybe if the person is carrying water, they can use it to douse 
the flames.  The material component for this could be a piece of
coal, or ash.  
      
Emotes:
The format of the emote ideas will be like this - 
a. The name of the emote
b. What the Saggart sees
c. What the target of the emote sees (if any)
d. What everyone else in the room sees

1. console <target>
You console Thyme with kind (or gentle/quiet) words.
Zima consoles you with a few kind words.
Zima consoles Thyme quietly.

2. sraise
You turn your gaze upwards and raise your hands to the sky.
Zima turns his gaze upwards and raises his hands to the heavens.

3. soffer <object> to <target>
You kneel down and humbly offer the leather-bound book to Thyme.
Zima kneels down and humbly offers a leather-bound book to you,
with his head lowered.
Zima kneels down with his head lowered and offers a leather-bound
book to Thyme, with upturned hands.

4. sglory
You feel the presence of Maighal (or the Ardaugh)
Zima glows with a holy white radiance.

Rajak   **


