-------------------------------------------------------------------------
         SPELLS OF THE ORDER OF SEAN-RHIAN
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Each promotion to a level gains the cleric a new spell, thus the spells
are listed with title from lowest to highest. Guild tax is calculated
by order, with the tax based on the total spells for clerics of the order.
 
The cleric must be properly vested (wearing the right clothing) to cast
the given spell, along with other components. Thus the vestments listed
for each spell are considered non-exhaustable components, while components
listed are extra on top of the vestments. The vestments listed for
each spell allows the cleric to cast that spell and any lower-level spells.
All vestments and the staff (only weapon a cleric can use) are purchased
in a guild hall.
 
All spell effects are also controlled by the amount of "harmony" (piety)
a cleric has, which is depleted by casting spells and increased by
performing ceremonies in the guild hall.
 
The effect or ease of casting of some spells can be increased by "linking"
with fellow clerics. Linking will be a special skill in the guild. The
increase in effect depends on the stats/skills of all linked, modified by
their linking skill. Spell depletes the harmony and mana of linked members
as well the as casting cleric. Clerics must be teamed and in same room for
linking to be effective. All linkable spells are marked with (LINKABLE)
 
Elements: Earth, Air, Water, Fire, Life, Death
Forms:    Transmutation, Illusion, Divination, Enchantment, Conjuration, Abjur.
 
COMPONENTS:
 - feather    - obtained from a bird; used in "fly" spells (exhaustable)
 - holy oil   - vial purchased; regular oil obtained for free or made from
                herbs/vegetables; oil must be blessed (guild NPCs will do
                this for novices who can not bless themselves.) (exhaustable)
 - holy water - vial purchased; water obtained for free; water must be
                blessed (by guild NPCs for novices) (exhaustable)
 - mirror     - obtained free (or bought?); helps with divinations
 - monstrance - a holy item, one per kirk
 - preps      - actions cleric must perform before casting spell
 - sprinkler  - purchased in guild hall; used with holy water
 - staff      - only weapon of a cleric; purchased in guild hall
 - talisman   - (tricircum) obtained free in guildhall (exhaustable)
                New talisman can be obtained for free in guild hall; must
                be charged/re-charged by performing a ceremony in guild hall;
                each used "depletes" the power of the talisman.
                cleric must "hold out" or "point" talisman at target before
                casting (or "hold it close" if self is target); cleric can
                not wield staff when "holding" talisman, and can not fight
 - vestments  - only armours clerics allowed to wear; purchased in guild hall
 - vial/flask - purchased; contains (holy) water or (holy) oil
 
NOVICE ORDER:
   talk (novishagh)
      prep:       none
      effect:     send a message to a distant cleric
      vestments:  alb
      components: none
      skills:     air, conjuration
 
   holy ground/peace (learned novishagh)
      prep:       anoint the ground with holy oil
      effect:     stops and prevents fighting in the room temporarily
      vestments:  alb, cincture
      components: holy oil
      skills:     earth, enchantment
 
   light staff:  (shirreyder)
      prep:       anoint staff with holy oil
      effect:     make the cleric's staff a light source (glow)
      vestments:  alb, cincture, surplice
      components: staff, holy oil
      skills:     fire, enchantment
 
   turn into statue: (guilley erin)
      prep:       wear cowl of alb, "hold talisman close"
      effect:     turns cleric into a statue (escape spell); player object
                  is replaced with a stone statue in the room where cast;
                  player is transported to a "limbo room" where he can see
                  the room where the statue is; when spell wears off, moves
                  player back to room where statue is, statue removed.
      vestments:  alb, cincture, surplice, tonsure
      components: talisman
      skills:     earth, transmutation
 
SEARMANAGH ORDER:
   link: (searmanagh)
      prep:       must be in same room and teamed with fellow cleric(s)
      effect:     "spriritually" links members together to increase spell
                  effects/casting chance. Enhances this cleric's linkable
                  spells and linked cleric's linkable spells. Also causes
                  depletion of mana/harmony when linked clerics cast linkable
                  spells. (see linking above)
      vestments:  cassock
      components: none
      skills:     linking (special skill)
 
   bless: (searmanagh)
      1. prep:    buy vial and fill it with water
         effect:  makes holy water
         components: vial, water
      2. prep:    buy vial and fill with oil
         effect:  makes holy oil
         components: vial, oil
      3. prep:    must fill sprinkler with holy water (if not already done)
         effect:  cleric sprinkles player/object with holy water, giving
                  the player/object a "blessed" property, which may allow
                  the object to be used in a special way or the player
                  to receive special benefits (ie: access to private
                  areas, immunity from spells, etc).
         components: sprinkler filled with holy water
      vestments:  cassock
      skills:     life, enchantment
 
   enflame staff: (devout searmangh) (LINKABLE)
      prep:       anoint staff with holy oil
      effect:     causes staff to be flaming, greating increasing the
                  hit/pen of the weapon temporarily. also prerequisite for
                  diaghin throw fire spell.
      vestments:  cassock, sash
      components: holy oil, staff
      skills:     fire, enchantment, [linking]
 
   divine alignment: (pious searmanagh)
      prep:       "hold talisman toward target"
      effect:     cleric speaks a "holy word" to a target living and holds
                  up the talisman; living reacts indicating alignment
                  (ie: "the devil screams in terror" or "the angel's face
                  radiates holiness")
      vestments:  cassock, sash, stole
      components: talisman
 
 
   force take exit: (ard-searmanagh)  (LINKABLE)
      prep:       "hold talisman toward target"
      effect:     forces player to take an exit and leave the room
                  higher skill/mana/harmony requirements if exit chosen
      vestments:  cassock, sash, stole, tonsure
      components: talisman (or monstrance if allowable)
      skills:     air, enchantment (or abjuration?), [linking]
 
DIAGHIN ORDER:
   throw fire: (diaghin) (LINKABLE)
      prep:       staff must be flaming (see enflame staff above)
      effect:     cleric throws a sheet of fire by swinging the flaming
                  staff toward the enemy (attack spell)
      vestments:  alb, dalmatic
      components: flaming staff (see above)
      skills:     fire, abjuration, [linking]
 
   scry: (revered diaghin)
      prep:       none
      effect:     allows cleric to see short description of room where
                  living target is.
      vestments:  alb, dalmatic, cincture
      components: mirror
      skills:     air, divination
 
   enhance armour: (revered diaghin)
      prep:       wearing alb
      effect:     increases armour value of alb temporarily
      vestments:  alb, dalmatic, cincture
      components: none
      skills:     earth, enchantment
 
   divine name: (venerable diaghin)
      prep:       none
      effect:     allows cleric to know the name of a living target
      vestments:  alb, dalmatic, cincture, stole
      components: mirror
      skills:     life, divination
 
   heal poison: (ard-diagin)
      prep:       make healing oil from holy oil and an herb
      effect:     cleric anoints living with healing oil, removing poison
      vestments:  alb, dalmatic, cincture, stole, tonsure
      components: holy oil and an herb
      skills:     life, enchantment?
 
SAGGART ORDER:
   lightning: (saggart) (LINKABLE)
      prep:       hold talisman toward enemy
      effect:     (attack spell) lighting streaks from the cleric's hands
                  damaging the enemy
      vestments:  alb, chausable
      components: talisman
      skills:     air (fire?), abjuration, [linking]
 
   force drop: (reverent saggart) (LINKABLE)
      prep:       prepare holy water
      effect:     cleric sprinkles enemy with holy water forcing enemy
                  to unwield or even drop his weapon
      vestments:  alb, chausable, cincture
      components: sprinkler, holy water
      skills:     earth, enchantment (abjuration?)
 
   teleport item: (holy saggart)
      prep:       anoint item with holy oil
      effect:     teleport item to a player
      vestments:  alb, chausable, cincture, stole
      components: feather, holy oil
      skills:     air, conjuration
 
   paralyze: (holy saggart) (LINKABLE)
      prep:       prepare holy water sprinkler
      effect:     paralyzes enemy, not allowing him to leave the room
                  (but can do all else)
      vestments:  alb, chausable, cincture, stole
      components: sprinkler, holy water
      skills:     life?, enchantment?
 
PRESBYTAIR ORDER:
   monstance attack: (presbyter) (LINKABLE)
      prep:       must hold up monstance toward target
      effect:     beam of light emits from monstrance and strikes enemy
      vestments:  alb, chausable, cincture, stone, tonsure
      components: monstrance and a special vestment required to hold it
      skills:     fire, abjuration, [linking]
 
   fly: (presbyter)
      prep:       none
      effect:     teleports cleric to a room from a given path; works like
                  "do north, north, east, etc.", except cleric is transported
                  to destination; cleric must know path ahead of time.
      vestments:  alb, chausable, cincture, stole, tonsure
      components: a feather obtained from a bird
      skills:     air, conjuration
 
   cast into hell: (ard-presbytair, seirsanach)
      prep:       "hold monstrance toward target"
      effect:     teleports enemy to an inescapble "hell" room, where
                  he must quit to escape.
      vestments:  alb, chausable, cincture, stole, mitre
      components: monstrance and a special vestment required to hold it.
      skills:     air, conjuration
 
