Message: 59
From   : Darien
Subject: The Traditions
To     : Adriel, Rowan, Amelia and Nogard
CC     : Darien
Date   : Jun 17 1998

    ** THE TRADITIONS OF THE ANCIENT ORDER OF THE DRAGON **

THE HEART OF THE DRAGON: SANCTITY OF THE BLOOD
  "Thy blood is that of Segoy, blessed by the winds and seas.
   To deny or refute thy heritage is to suffer the agony of
   barbarity, the Death of Wisdom and the True Flesh.
   Blessed are the Children of Segoy."

                    -- From the Journey of the Dragon

   THE CODE OF THE BLOOD:
        No monk may attack another monk physically or verbally
        (board notes will be considered as 'verbal' for the sake
        of this rule).
        If you find yourself in combat with a fellow Kahedan for
        any reason you should stop fighting and leave the room
        until all violence has ceased.

        The following exceptions exist to this rule:
        *   Defending yourself.
        *   Defending your treasures.
        *   Defending your legal spouse ONLY if your legal spouse
            is attacked.

        Defending guild NPC's (unless the NPC is a member of the
        Order) or teammates are not valid reasons to break this
        rule.  The sanctity of the Blood is all pervasive...
        those of the Blood must be defended and preserved above
        all others.


THE SOUL OF THE DRAGON: THE LEGACY
   "Thy spirit is of the splendor of the heavens and the essence
    of the Makers.  Soar proudly, wisely through thy home skies,
    ever noble, ever glorious.  And though ye be devious, and with
    craft take unto thee the myriad treasures of the earth,
    treat with honour and respect thy fellow creatures.  Yet while
    thee be peaceful and enlightened, let not thy fellow creatures
    trifle with thee, else they be scourged by thy fiery wrath."

                    -- From the Journey of the Dragon

    THE CODE OF THE LEGACY:
         Regardless of alignment, regardless of secondary guilds,
         a member of the Order is to act with honour and nobility
         befitting the noble presence of the Dragon.  Any acts
         which bring dishonor upon a single member brings dishonor
         upon the Order, and shames the Legacy of Segoy.
         A member of the Order is to be peaceful and enlightened,
         embracing all faiths, all paths of life without prejudice.
         A member of the Order should comport themself with wisdom
         and grace.  Wanton disrespect for others, and insulting
         behaviour will not be tolerated.
         As a member of the Order, be wise in the company you keep.
         No matter who your teammate is, you are always expected to
         uphold the laws and Legacy of Segoy.  The Order will not
         limit with whom you may team, but it is best for you to
         make sure your teammates respect your laws.  Should they
         engage in ignoble or dishonourable acts in your company,
         you will likely be held accountable.
         When teamed with others, the behaviour of the team reflects
         upon the member of the Order, and asuch reflects upon the
         Order itself.  While teamed with a member of the Order, all
         players must follow the tenets of the Order, otherwise the
         member will be required to leave the team.
         But we of the Kin are proud, and those who might toy or
         insult the Order must be taught suitable lessons for their
         insolence.  Thus violent action is acceptable with suitable
         reason, as discussed in the Code of the Warrior.
         Thievery, which might be considered dishonourable by the
         unimaginative, is acceptable to the Order with certain
         limitations (after all, a thief represents excellently
         the legacy of the dragon's hoard and the dragon's
         craftiness).  A member of the Order who thieves must
         adhere to the following rules:

         *   No member of the Order may steal anything from any
             player more than one mortal level in size below them,
             UNLESS that player has attacked the member AND the
             theft is of specifically weaponry, armour, and/or
             any other item which could pose a definite threat to
             the member's life (Morgul Mage potion, damage spell
             scroll, wand, etc.).
         *   A member of the Order may NEVER steal any items from
             another member of the Order, UNLESS attacked by that
             member AND the theft is of specifically weaponry,
             armour, and/or any other item which could pose a
             definite threat to the member's life (Morgul Mage
             potion, damage spell scroll, wand, etc.).
         *   A member of the Order is to NEVER backstab any player
             more than one mortal level in size below them.
             Players of acceptable size may be backstabbed ONLY if
             combat has already been initiated (see The Code of the
             Warrior for specifics on initiating acceptable combat)
             and the member is hunting the player.
         *   A member of the Order is to NEVER backstab another
             member of the Order.  To continue hunting another
             member, regardless of who initiated combat, is to
             violate the Sanctity of the Blood.

         Violation of the Legacy, either by inappropriate behaviour
         or ignoble thievery, will result in banishment or even
         eviction from the Order.


THE MIND OF THE DRAGON: THE WARRIOR
   "The path of enlightenment ever offers the unwise submission
    and retreat.  But if the ignorant persist in barbarity, give
    unto them thy talon and thy tooth."

                    -- From the Journey of the Dragon

    THE CODE OF THE WARRIOR:
         It is not the philosophy of this Order to wantonly take
         the lives of those who do not pose a tangible threat to
         us.  Insults and verbal threats are insufficient cause
         for the slaying of another player unless such occurrences
         are continual.  Then remember the Legacy of Segoy and
         teach them what lessons are fitting.
         Regardless, a log must be kept of all fights and a short
         report mailed immediately after the fight to Council.
         Full combat logs will only be required if an investigation
         is deemed necessary.  If Council finds that the record
         is inadequate, or that there was insufficient cause for
         a fight, the member will be punished.
         When attacking or assisting against a player, you must
         state who you are and declare your intent to attack,
         regardless of whether or not your identity and why you
         are attacking is obvious.  You do not have to formally
         introduce yourself... only state your name.
         A member initiating combat against another player without
         warning is courting disgrace.  Your prospective opponent
         must have sufficient time to respond to your declaration
         of intent to attack.
         Adhering to the above restrictions, Kahedans are allowed
         to kill indiscriminantly in regards to alignment and
         races but for the following exceptions:

         *   Attacking players that are significantly smaller
             than yourself is an intolerable dishonour to the
             Legacy.  If you are caught attacking and/or killing
             players that are more than two mortal levels lower
             than yourself without reason, expect to suffer the
             full wrath of the Council.
         *   Attacking the legal spouse of a member is strictly
             prohibited and will be punished according to the
             sentence for attacking a fellow member.  A mate of
             a member of the Order is considered kin to the
             Order.  Asuch, a legal spouse of a member may only
             be fought under the same circumstances that a member
             might acceptably fight another member of the Order.
         *   Guild NPCs which are simultaneously quest NPCs are
             not to be attacked.  Attacking and/or slaying such
             NPCs is not only an affront to the particular Guild
             involved, but is also spiteful to those wishing to
             complete the quests offered by the NPC.  Such acts
             demonstrate nothing but lack of respect, and reflect
             poorly upon the Order.  If you attack such an NPC
             you will be punished.

         Punishments will be decided by the Council alone on a
         case by case basis.  Some sample punishments are listed
         in the book 'Punishments', also available in the Library
         of the Order.
         The decision of the Council need not be discussed with
         other guild members except the persons involved and the
         Guildmaster of the Order.
         Any one with a complaint against a member of the Order
         should mail the entire Council of the Order and provide
         complete details of the incident and persons involved.


