Message: 63
From   : Darien
Subject: Title suggestions :)
To     : Amelia, Nogard, Adriel and Rowan
CC     : Darien
Date   : Jul 28 1998

Ok, here are some title suggestions, just because you guys had
asked us for such.  We based it off an open guild--no secrets.
We were thinking that to even things up so that a mega-champ could
not simply join, max skills, and thus max title that we should
also have titles based on an amalgam of several things:
10% focus, 10% unarmed, 10% wisdom, 30% experience, 40% time
in guild (perhaps a running clock from joining).  We were also
thinking that grandfathered members could automatically have
their time set at a max level to receive their full 40% value
(just to make it simple).  New joiners would benefit from this,
but they'd still have to account for experience and the rest.
To create transition from the Order of Kaheda to the Order of
the Dragon, we would continue with secondary titles of the old
priesthood.  Titles would be as follow, with due consideration
in the final code to gender matters (i.e., Master/Mistress,
Loremaster/Loremistress, Priest/Priestess, etc.):

Fledgling of Segoy, Acolyte of the Dragon Order of Kaheda
Seeker of Segoy, Acolyte of the Dragon Order of Kaheda
Learned of Segoy, Acolyte of the Dragon Order of Kaheda
Loremaster of Segoy, Elder Acolyte of the Dragon Order of Kaheda
Initiate of Dragons, High Acolyte of the Dragon Order of Kaheda

Disciple of Dragons, Novice Priest of the Dragon Order of Kaheda
Initiate of Mysteries, Priest of the Dragon Order of Kaheda
Adept of Mysteries, Priest of the Dragon Order of Kaheda
Master of Mysteries, Priest of the Dragon Order of Kaheda
Dragon Adept of the Chimerical Vision, Elder Priest of the Dragon
     Order of Kaheda
Dragon Sage of the Ancient Gremayre, Elder Priest of the Dragon
     Order of Kaheda

Dragonmaster of the Rising Dawn, High Priest of the Dragon Order
     of Kaheda
Dragonmaster of the Elyzerin Sun, High Priest of the Dragon Order
     of Kaheda
Dragonmaster of the Harvest Twilight, High Priest of the Dragon
     Order of Kaheda
Dragonmaster of the Tempest Moon, High Priest of the Dragon Order
     of Kaheda
Dancer on the West Wind, High Priest of the Dragon Order of Kaheda

Alignment would also play a factor in title.  Each title above
would be prefaced by an alignment title based on the current
alignment of the character.  As the character's alignment raised
and lowered, the alignment would vary as follows:

+860 up         Resplendent
+859 to +600    Radiant
+599 to +400    Luminescent
+399 to +200    Lusterous
+199 to -199    Shadowwalking
-200 to -399    Onyx
-400 to -599    Ebon
-600 to -859    Obsidian
-860 down       Stygian

The entirety would come together like this:

Ribald, the Luminescent Learned of Segoy, Acolyte of the Dragon
     Order of Kaheda, great adventurer, male human

                                   or

Cassandra, the Obsidian Dragonmistress of the Rising Dawn, High
     Priestess of the Dragon Order of Kaheda, champion, female elf

Councillors would have additional titles based on the three themes
of the Codes: Heart of the Dragon, Mind of the Dragon, and Soul of
the Dragon.
Elders and Councillors would both have additional titles based on
the Elders/Council group, "The Dragonbound".  Each Elder/Councillor
is an "Eye" of the "Dragonbound", with Elders having colours, and
Councillors having gems.  We suggest the following colours for the
Elder titles:

indigo, umber, ashen, celadon, orchid, vermillion, gamboge, sable,
azure, and sienna

For Councillors, we suggest ruby (Heart), sapphire (Mind), and
amethyst (Soul).  Former Councillors would be retired with an
honorary title of "Ancient Eye of the Dragonbound", and be auto-
added to the Council/Elders list as an advisor.
The result for Elders and Councillors would be the following
titles:

Bromen, Ashen Eye of the Dragonbound, Ebon Dancer on the West
     Wind, High Priest of the Dragon Order of Kaheda, champion,
     male human
                                  or

Adriel, the Heart of the Dragon, Ruby Eye of the Dragonbound,
     Radiant Dancer on the West Wind, High Priestess of the Dragon
     Order of Kaheda, champion, female dwarf

                                  or

Ekkehard, Ancient Eye of the Dragonbound, Obsidian Dragonmaster of
     the Tempest Moon, High Priest of the Dragon Order of Kaheda,
     champion, male human

While the titles may seem extreme, recent guilds (such as the new
Walkers) and new recodes (Calians and Knights) have secondary and
even terciary titles for even normal members, let alone Councils.
So... here are the ideas.  Hope you like them. :)

Rowan & Darien


