Message: 4
From   : Darien
Subject: mwarn
To     : Adriel, Rowan, Amelia and Nogard
CC     : Darien
Date   : Jun 17 1998

Mwarn will be the new requirement for acceptable Kahedan player-fighting.  In order to pfight (either by 'kill' or 'assist'), a Kahedan will have to 'mwarn' an opponent.  If mwarn is used on a non-player object, this message is given: "The <object name> lacks sufficient sentience to benefit from such warning."

Mwarn will relate a two stage message to all present in the room.  First a declaration of intent:

    Darien's focuses his stern gaze upon you as he declares with cold
    intensity:
      I am Darien, Enlightened Bishop of Kaheda, and as is my
      Way, I offer you this warning.  Depart or I shall attack.

    [Here I thought perhaps a DIS check might compare the Kahedan's
     DIS with the object of the kwarn, relaying different messages
     to people in the room, like "Dorkboy gulps loudly as he
     recognizes Darien's intent." or something like that depending
     on difference in DISs between the two players.]

There will then be a delay during which the object of the mwarn can leave.  If they are still present, the second stage will occur with the Kahedan being drawn into combat with the object.

    Seeing you yet insulting his presence, Darien fluidly slips into
    an offensive martial form and prepares to strike.
    Darien attacks you!

This command would thereafter moderate combat for us.  If you
attack or assist someone whom you have not <mwarn>ed, you will
be automatically disgraced, a state similar to banishment,
but also modifying downward the unarmed combat, weapon skill,
and defense of the Kahedan by 10 levels or more until a
Council member has reviewed the case and deemed the cause of
the fight acceptable.  If this does not occur, they will be
automatically moved into banishment.
If, though, the Kahedan used <mwarn>, then their victim will be
listed in an array for that day, and so they will have "warned"
an individual of their intent to slay... after that, we would
consider that if the person wanted to stick around to fight,
then, well... everyone gets what they deserved in the matter.

Well, there's the suggestion for altering our approach to
pfighting. People will still be required to log their fights
within the rules and report the incidents to Council.  If
people complain, then, we have the reports we need.

D.

