Message: 133
From   : Aradun
Subject: Ideas for Order
Date   : Apr 19 1998

Dear Amelia,

I have just read your note concerning the restructuring of the Order.  I am very happy that such changes are to be implemented.  I must say, i found it frustrating to role play with a mix of the two historical defenitions of Monk.
Myself, the whole reason I joined the order was for role playing as a Shoa Lin monk.
I would be so pleased if I could help shape the New Order with that theme mind.  I can also be of a great service to you as a reference.
In my Real Life, I am actually a member of a Shoa Lin order of White Tiger style and a Neo Chan Buddhist.
My Teacher is Grand Master Simon of Temple Kung Fu.  I have been a member for 10 years and very knowledgable with the arts and of the philosophy of such monks.  Normally the sharing of this knowledge in RL would be a betrayal of the Art, but as it is in Genesis, it is quite safe.
The History of the Shoa Lin is very long, however the religion is very simple.  Mainly dealing with Compassion.
In truth, very few Shoa Lin learned martial arts.  But anyway, I could go on for a while here.
Please mail me and let me know if i can aid you in any way.  There are a lot of ideas I have about this and to put all of them to you would be overwhelming.  I dont think i could type that much either.

Ive actually been trying to see if i could build a guild on a game called Arda which is just like Genesis but deals only with Middle Earth.  Id really like to see how the guild and its philosophies of which I am a member of would interact in that environment

Please mail me Amelia as soon as you can and let me know how I can help.
Respectfully Aradun Voronwe

Message: 135
From   : Darien
Subject: Ok...
To     : Rowan, Nogard and Amelia
CC     : Darien
Date   : Apr 19 1998

Before it is acceptable to apply to the guild, it is necessary
for an individual to discover their true name.  Once this is
accomplished, they may state their true name at the time of
their application in order for the application command to be
finalized.
Upon acceptance, the acolyte process commences.  Due to an
incomplete level of skills, taxation for the various acolyte
stages is lowered (as with the Knights, Thieves, and Rangers).
Each stage of the acolyte process is accomplished with a duality
of experience and mini-quests.  Upon acceptance, an individual
would be an Initiate.  Thereafter to increase, the Initiate would
be required to gain sufficient experience to perform the quest
to become a full acolyte.  Once this experience is acquired, the
player may thereafter attempt the mini-quest (a question of
thematic consequence from the Earthsea books).  Each question
can be approached once per reboot.  Failure means the individual
is locked into their present level until another reboot brings
them another chance to succeed.  Success means that they become
an Acolyte.  The levels above Acolyte would be acquired in the
same manner.  As essentially a Kahedan pupil, a player will have
the following levels and skill maximums:

LEVEL:                             SKILL MAXIMUM:
Initiate of Kahedanan              Superior Layman (30)
Acolyte of Kahedanan               Confident Acolyte (35)
Ascetic of Kahedanan               Superior Acolyte (40)
Learned Acolyte of Kahedanan       Confident Journey (45)
Elder Acolyte of Kahedanan         Superior Journey (50)

These levels would have access to most, if not all, specials and
skills of the guild, but at the curtailed levels.  They would
also have access to most parts of the guild.  Certain areas would
be restricted to these levels, though, such as a secondary library
which would have the true and complete history of the Guild. ;)

Upon ascending to Elder Acolyte, acquiring sufficient experience,
and answering a final mini-quest, the player will be required to
gain full acceptance into the Order by recommendation and Council
approval.  Now the true fun begins.

Up to this point, the player (thematically) has only known that
he/she was part of an Order worshipping the Gods of Earthsea.  As
a Priest/Priestess, though, they gain access to all areas of the
Guild, as well as discover the true nature of Segoy and the Gods
of Earthsea... they were and are dragons (Kalessin = Segoy).  A
prohibition will be placed upon them; they can never attack or
kill dragons (this is a harsh one because of more than a few
dragon-related quests in Genesis), otherwise they will be auto
Banished for a period to be decided.  In fact, thematically, the
player should be DEFENDING any dragons they encounter, good or
evil (after all, dragons in the books tend to be more amoral,
at least IMHO).
This "secret" aspect to the guild allows us to keep with the
original history as a front.  Titles could outwardly remain the
same to non-Priest/Priestess Kahedans, while the inner circles
(those above Elder Acolyte) would see special Guild-only titles.
Levels of Priesthood/Priestesshood would be limited by question
quests from the books, just as the lower levels, but these ones
would be more dragon-intensive.  In addition, a special Kahedan
language (words of the Making) would be available.
The guru quest would remain, but may I suggest that instead of a
hydra an undead dragon be used.  A mindless dragon lich is perhaps
the most distasteful thing I could imagine for a worshipper of
dragons.  Suggested levels and skill maximums would be as follow:

LEVEL:                             SKILL MAXIMUM:
Disciple of Segoy                  Superior Craftsman (60)
Herald of Segoy                    Superior Professional (70)
Guardian of the Western Reaches    Superior Veteran (80)
Dancer on the Other Wind           Superior Master (90)
Dragonhearted                      Superior Guru (100)

I would suggest the following skills and skill levels for the new
Kaheda:

SKILL:                             SKILL LEVEL:
Focus                              Superior Guru (100)
Unarmed Combat                     Superior Guru (100)*
Defense                            Superior Master (90)
Language                           Superior Professional (70)
Herbalism                          Superior Craftsman (60)
Awareness                          Superior Craftsman (60)
Blind Fighting                     Superior Journeyman (50)
Hide                               Superior Journeyman (50)+
Sneak                              Superior Journeyman (50)+

   * Superior Guru only with quest.
   + Acquired only upon becoming a Disciple of Segoy (Priest).

I add in hide and sneak simply because I think it thematic for a
guild both secret and emulative of dragons to possess abilities
to hide and move silently.  Dragons are legendary hunters, and
not only for their raw physical power, but also for their speed,
agility, and stealth in the hunt.  I believe a guild that worships
dragons would strive to emulate them.

SPECIALS
I have a few suggestions for the recoding of current specials and
one new special.
Serpine was planning to do this, but I just want to resuggest in
case a combination of the maegeri, roundhouse, and axekick specials
into one rotating special.  With one special which gave varying
messages depending on damage and success of strike, these present
specials could be combined into a much more entertaining as well
as functional special.  Snapkicks, snappunches, roundhouses, flying
kicks, open-handed strikes, and axekicks could all be included.
Plexus would be similarly recoded to include varied results for
greater success.  Sweepkicks, throws, bodyslams, and headbutts
could all be results, many of which would affect even undead (after
all, even an undead creature if swept off its feet or thrown about
will still need to take time to get back up and reorient itself).
The final suggestion would be for a new special completely.  Since
Kaheda would be weaponless, and there is good reason for abhorring
weapons, why not create a special that breaks at least weapons if
not armours, too.
Magical weaponry may take a while, or be completely resistant, but
lesser weaponry could be piecemealed slowly or, with greater success
in a player's attempt, break instantly.
The special would be unique guild-wise but perfectly fitting with
a martial arts guild (since there are various RL forms which feature
weapon-breaking techniques).
Well, that's all my poor brain can type up for now. :)
BTW, the titles are just some filler titles I came up with for the
category headings.  Have fun!!

D.

Message: 142
From   : Serpine
Reply  : Elders (forwarded)
Date   : Apr 20 1998

Author : Darien
To     : Serpine, Rowan and Nogard
CC     : Darien
Date   : Apr  2 1998

THE ELDERS OF THE ANCIENT ORDER OF KAHEDA

The Elders are new positions, completely roleplay as they
currently stand.  Elders have applied publically for the
position and have been perceived by their fellow Kahedans
to be worthy of additional administrative duties within
the Guild.  Each Elder must be at least of veteran status,
be knowledgeable of the rules of the Guild, and have a
respectable reputation within the Guild.

The present duties of an Elder stand as follow:

  1.  Interview applicants to the Order and report to both
      Elders and Council as to the viability of an applicant;
  2.  Answer questions about Kaheda from prospective members;
  3.  Advise Council on sensitive matters upon which Council
      requires knowledgeable input.

Any applicant MUST acquire at least one recommendation from
an Elder to be accepted in addition to all other recommendations
from other Kahedans.


SUGGESTIONS FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE ELDER POSITION

The main focus of my suggestion for the ten Elder positions revolves
around the position being hard-coded into the Guild.  Each Elder
would acquire an "Elder" to their title (Elder Priest/Priestess),
would be listed downstairs on the plaque listing Council members,
and would continue with their present duties.
In addition, though, they would also gain the ability to 'initiate'
new members.  Let me detail the current application process...
As Kaheda's code now stands, an applicant goes to the downstairs
chapel and applies ('apply' command).  They are required to gain
two recommendations, at least one from an Elder, and write an
application letter to Council stating their intent to join, why
they wish to join, and assorted other background information.  If
their application is approved, a Councillor simply uses the 'accept'
command and that applicant is able to go back to the chapel and
use a 'join' command.
I would like to alter this process.  The letter of application,
interview with an Elder or Councillor, and recommendations would
still be required.  But what I suggest doing is creating a two
tiered system of acceptance.  A Councillor will be required to
'accept' the applicant, basically approving their application.
But thereafter the applicant must meet with either a Councillor
OR an Elder (requiring the hard-coding of the position) in the
chapel and be initiated ('initiate <name>' command useable by
either an Elder or a Councillor).  I suggest this as a roleplay
tool, necessitating direct contact for initiation.  My hope is to
create initiation ceremonies whereby someone is indoctrinated into
the ways of Kaheda.  Perhaps each person could perform a different
ceremony; perhaps a ceremony would be hard-coded.  Regardless, the
applicant and either an Elder or a Councillor would be required to
be present to initiate the individual.  Since you wanted to assure
that no one would wait endlessly, perhaps someone could be auto-
initiated after a week or two of not being initiated by going to
the chapel and typing a 'join' command.
Currently, though, I'm trying to develop interest in having formal
initiation ceremonies.  When I was High Warrior of Solamnia, I
always did little ceremonies.  Knights, Squires, Sentries, and
friends from all over Genesis would come for initiations... it
became an event rather than just another command you typed.  People
brought gifts, food, beverages... a full ceremony came out of it
and people met other members of the Guild.  People have been very
interested in doing it after I brought it up, but we have yet to
actually perform one.  But currently the 'accept' command is in the
upstairs Council chambers, and the 'join' command for the applicant
is downstairs in the chapel.  So any ceremony will necessitate some
running about (which is unfortunate for smooth roleplay).
So... there's my idea.  It would require more recoding, but I think
that in the long-run it would pay off.  Kaheda has unfortunately
never been a guild with reknowned roleplay.  I would love to change
that reputation....

Take care and good travels, all!

Bishop Darien Stormdis of the House Ravensong

Message: 145
From   : Serpine
Reply  : titles (forwarded)
Date   : Apr 20 1998

Author : Rowan
CC     : Darien
Date   : Apr  3 1998

Well, I'm not sure if you discussed changing titles, but here is a note I posted a LONG time ago for Mona regarding title ideas...

Titles                                     32 Rowan       Mortal     Jul  4

Okie doke, here are my ideas for new titles for your perusaland additions.
We discussed that perhaps the first set of titles would be based on skills, and
when those were maxxed, we would switch to titles based on age.  Also, we
discussed Monks being able to choose thier title.  So here are my thoughts.

The First set would be "th (adjective) Scholar of the Kahedan Order"
Adjectives are as follows:
unskilled, inexperienced, novitiate, studied, tested, practiced, accomplished,
adept, educated, enlightened

at this point, one could select a "profession" within the order.  I was
thinking one of these choices: Protector, Scribe, Herbalist, Monk
(I know we are all Monks, but some may prefer to simply be that)
Adjectives for these are:
initiate, seeking, travelled, reknown, adored, beloved, pious, venerated,
revered, eminent, elder, ancient
So a title would be "the Elder Scribe of the Kahedan Order"

I also discussed with Nogard whether it would be difficult to put our postion
first, such as "Bishop Rowan Donnelaith, the Elder Scribe of the Kahedan Order"
He said it was as far as the regular who went, but its a thought.
Else it Could be "Rowan Donnelaith, Elder Scribe and Bishop of the Kahedan
Order" or "Macros the Beloved Protector and Priest of the Kahedan Order"
or perhaps "Macros, Priest and Beloved Protector of the Kahedan Order"

Also, we talked of changing from being Bishops.  What about becoming Clerics?
I know we aren't quite that in the AD&D sense, but a Cleric is a holy person,
and we do use some spells.

some of this is outdated, but you can peruse it anyways :)

Ro

Message: 146
From   : Serpine
Reply  : Guild ideas... (forwarded) (forwarded)
Date   : Apr 20 1998

Author : Darien
Date   : Apr  5 1998

Author : Whyte
To     : Darien, Rowan and Nogard
Date   : Apr  5 1998

Guild library breakup:
First level - open to the public:
This would include our standard books on: Joining, rules, etc.
It could also contain commonly available maps, books on races
history and other general topics demand available to the
public at large.

Second level - open to all guild members:
This would include books detailing subjects of guild law, decrees
and other rules by the council as applicable to the guild at
large. It would also hold books on weapons and armour, guilds
to combat and books on other monkly development such as herbalism
and alchemy.

Third level - open to Elders:
This could include books dealing with interviewing, as well as
levels of force(ie controlling a possibly volitale situation), and
other topics dealing with those kinds of things Elders might encounter.

Fourth level - open to Council:
This would contain obviously books on guild treatess, other guild
information, detailed books on rulings and the who what wheres. It
would also house information and experiences that council members
believe would benefit later council members. It could also contain
detail information on members for later usage.

Each one of these library levels would also find a board room
for each respective group useful(similar to what we already have
in existance.

Well, that is about all I have on the subject.

Whyte

Message: 146
From   : Pie
Subject: about kaheda
Date   : Apr 25 1998

well here comes a mail about my suggestion..

How about give monks a latin language..
I mean.. like other guilds.. there is a way to speak.. with fellows guildmembers
so others cant understand it.. so good..
and typ a latin way..
so when you are in the same room.. you can speak this.. language.. to your brothers and sisters..
It is just an idea and I think It can be a good addition... 
what do you think..? 

with Regards 
Pie Enlightened Elder Of Kaheda

Message: 30
From   : Cuthalion
Subject: Kaheda special idea
CC     : Nogard
Date   : May 11 1998

How about a special based on the atemi death touch...
Instead of killing though, this special would stop the natural healing rate
of whoever it is successfully inflicted upon.
Magical or herbal healing would be all the victim would have
until healed by a monk or armageddon came and would erase the condition.
The blow would not cause damage itself, just the condition.
The purpose behind this special would be securing Kaheda neutrality.
 "So exactly why are you suffering from this?"
 "Why did you attack one of my order?"
Abuse of it would be handled by the Kaheda council just like a case of
excessive pfighting.
The only other use/abuse (depends on point of view) would be
against monsters/npcs.One could use the touch, wimp,
and then return after healing.
Since it causes no damage the best way to avoid this use
is to make it incedibly difficult to be successful.
I think this would be a unique new special and could remain in balance.
An example:
 "You prepare to do an atemi death touch"
 "You lightly touch _______ on the neck behind the ears with both hands."
or "You try to do an atemi death touch but miss."
You can see this would require both hands to be free i.e. unarmed.
The description is intentional so that an ignorant victim would know
what to suspect as to the cause of their condition.
Commands for it would be "atemi death" and "atemi cure".
I could refine this more if you are at all interested.
Thanks,
Cuthalion

Message: 31
From   : Bromen
Subject: ideas
To     : Nogard
CC     : Amelia
Date   : May 19 1998

well, here are my suggestions.  they just popped up in me head :)

emote suggestions...
msmile- a slow enlightened smile comes over your face.
mmarry (who) with (who)- you bless the happy couple. <we can have fun with this one>
mchi- you focus all your energy and an aura of light appears over your head.  (a dark aura for evil)
mheal (who)- you heal (who) with your preistly powers.

special suggestion
ok, how is this for originallity.

why not implement a system of combos for specials.
such as...

attack goblin
*this will start the combat sequence*
plexus
*how most every battle starts off*
*now, if the plexuse hits, the monk can immediately go into his second special*
*but only if the plex, or whatever, hits successfuly
*the command can be <combo plexus roundhouse axekick>
* if you need me to elaborate, just mail me back.

another thing, why not give an upper body special as well.

something like uppercut, or stonefist.  
and to replace backflips and halo, why not add a sweep kick to trip the opponent.  
it would have about the same damage as a mae-geri, but also a really weak stun.
so combat would go something like this


kill goblin
combo plexus mae geri stonefist roundhouse sweep axekick
*aliases of course :)*
You hit the goblin in the stomach
He looks very stunned by the blow
You prepare for a mae geri
You hit the goblin with an excellent hit
The goblin seems rather hurt
You prepare for a stonefist
You hit the goblin with an excellent hit
The goblin seems very hurt
The goblin aims for your head with his right fist, but misses
You prepare for a roundhouse
You hit the goblin with an excellent hit
The goblin seems crushed
You prepare for a jumping spinning axe kick
You hit the goblin with an excellent hit
The goblin seems massacred
The goblin died
You killed the goblin

or something like that.  maybe with out the prepare messages.
if one move is missed, the combo ends, and it takes a while to concentrate again.
unique yes?
kinda like martial arts yes?

plz reply what you think :)

Brother B.

Message: 44
From   : Pie
Subject: Vegetables
To     : Nogard
CC     : Amelia
Date   : May 25 1998

Hiya!

I have an idea again  hmm 2 actually:)
first we monks use mtells and its taking alots of mana if we shall ( we want to) tell evryone hello when we log in
so first i would ask if we as monks can have our own vegetables 
like a small room with a Npc monk standing and have vegetables for selling OR
we can have  a few rooms bigger garden and we have a small yard with vegetables growing so e can pick for our selfs..


so to next question.. 
to this mtell to all cant we have a special mtell for starting to tell all monks 
or a notify voice telling everyone that someone logs in.. 
You have surely allreday come up with this but I was thinking t tell and ask anyway:)

so Take care 
With Regards 
Pie

