Message: 50
From   : Lothmar
Subject: balancing Kaheda
To     : Mona, Mccram, Amelia, Finwe, Flippyjoe, Thundor, Plugh and Marisol
Date   : Aug 26 1997

Greetings! I was just going to suggest a few things that I think most 
Kahedans will agree with, and perhaps they can help to balance the guild.

First off, having backflips, axekick, roundhouse and maegeri for occupational
monks seems to be a bit much.  Perhaps removing backflips and axekick could
help to lower tax, or maybe maegeri only for layman members?  There is no need
for so many different specials when most times monks only use one, not including
plexus.

Another idea is the choice of a primary weapon.  If you choose to have polearm
to sup master or sup guru, then you can only learn unarmed to confident veteran.
Likewise, if you have sup master unarmed combat, polearm can only be raised to
confident veteran.  Something similar to what the Calians have/had.
Perhaps then we can decrease the number of weapon skills we have, bringing
us more into balance, while not taking big skills away from one's main weapon
skill.

On a side note, the fact that we have no parry skills shows that we do not
have the ability to defend as well as other guilds, so good defence is still
very important, even if tax goes up because of it.

Thank you for your time.
Lothmar

Message: 46
From   : Akeisha
Subject: Monks
To     : Mona, Mccram, Amelia, Finwe, Flippyjoe, Thundor, Plugh and Marisol
CC     : Akeisha, Maniac, Olorin, Karath, Mercade, Glaurung, Khail, Morrigan,
         Louie and Shiva
Date   : Aug 24 1997

I have currently disabled the Monks' halo. I have also sent an extensive
mail to Mona, Mccram, Plugh. If you have other questions/problems 
regarding this issue, come speak to me.

Akeishas

Message: 47
From   : Akeisha
Reply  : Monks (forwarded)
Date   : Aug 25 1997

Author : Akeisha
To     : Mona
CC     : Plugh, Mccram and Akeisha
Date   : Aug 24 1997

As you know, I've been looking over the monks. I'm not sure how
much Mona has told you as of yet, or whether she has indeed mailed
either one of you on this situation. This guild is going to be 
reviewed as it currently is. The original projected date for opening
the new version of the guild was third week of July. I'm sure you
are aware that we are in the late August, and it looks as though
it will in the least be about a month and a half in the shortest
time frame for this new version to be released. Hence, I have 
decided to require the necessary changes now. This will give you
a good idea of what I expect for the second version of the guild
also. 

The fixes I have in mind are going to be very quick and to the
point. I expect this to be done within a week. 

First, I wanted to talk about plexus. It is severely undertaxed.
Stunning your opponent 50% of the time is 100% combat aid. That
it itself is about 16.7% tax. Since you are utilizing skills, 
plexus alone should be costing about 8-9%. Your opponent is disabled
50% of the time. This doubles the time a player spends in combat.
Hence, the reason why it's 100% combat aid. The other specials
seem a bit more reasonable.

Second, the level of training of polearm, unarmed combat, defence,
and blindfighting. I understand the nature of the guild and why it 
is necessary for the high level of unarmed combat and defence. In
the next couple of weeks, there will be a change to the maximum 
level in offense and defence/parry allowed for all guilds. The max
in any primary offense skill (this included unarmed, blindfighting
and any weapons skill) is 100. You only get one. The 100 level is
based on the fact that the guild has a suitable guru quest. The
second offense skill (this is not including specials) will be 75.

Thirdly, I am greatly concerned about the combination of blindfighting
and the dark halo with the monks and to my surprise, there was no
mention of it in the tax document, nor have they been charged for this
spell. No mention of it in the "extras" in the tax document. Considering
that most npc's do not have a level of blindfighting and the fact that
monks can create darkness and fight proficiently in the dark, I find 
this very disturbing and greatly unbalancing. Not to mention that this
has not been taxed unless I take the liberty of interpreting the tax
document's of "overtaxing" a 1.1%. Not to mention, this spell costs a
measily 5 mana and that there is no cap on this spell. Not to mention
that its current duration time is overly generous to begin with. I have
disabled this spell for now. I understand that this is not of your original
coding and that you have been recoding the guild. This is not acceptable.
Do not return it into the game until you have my approval first.

Anyhow, this is my first impression. I expect that the tax problems be
fixed asap. The levels of skills, I expect that there will be a bit
more discussion on. I may go up as high as 80 on blindfighting, but
not in the current situation in combination with this dark halo. On
halo, it should be treated as a spell, whether light or dark. I would
suggest on enlarging your garden to include ingredients for this spell,
should you choose to keep it. Also, in my opinion, mtell costs ridiculously
low at 10 mana. It is a spell nonetheless. I can't say that I'm pleased 
with what I have found. I know that inheriting someone else's work is difficult.
I hope that this does not discourage you from the task you have ahead.
This is not something I with to permanently delay however. Fix this now
and it can be put aside and you can concentrate and take as much time
in recoding this guild as you wish. I figure the changes should not 
require more than a week. If you have any more questions, don't hesitate
to contact me.


Akeisha


Message: 51
From   : Darien
Subject: Having a lot of concerns...
To     : Mccram, Amelia, Rowan and Nogard
CC     : Darien
Date   : Aug 27 1997

And a lot of fears down here... I was just wondering if you were
recoding the guild objects as you went, or if you were making new
files first, then presenting it to Balance for approval?
As you can tell from the board, right now people are taking the
slightest change in msneeze.  *grin*  So it would be nice if either
we or you could tell them IF their decrease in very stunneds is their
own fear getting to them, or if there is something actually to it.

I understand if you can't reveal it, but I think it would be quite
helpful (and probably best coming from you).

Thank you for listening, and thank you for being there. :)

Darien

Message: 33
From   : Akeisha
Subject: Monk balance issues (forwarded)
Date   : Jun 17 1997

Author : Lilith
To     : Mona, Akeisha, Maniac, Olorin, Karath, Teth, Mercade, Glaurung,
         Khail, Shiva, Alaron, Quetzl, Sorgum and Rastlin
CC     : Lilith and Lilith
Date   : Jun 14 1997

Greetings,
It seems I write a note regarding the monks every few months or
so. Once again I will write, pointing out problems and possible 
solutions.

The doc in Roke/open/GUILDS does not provide a break-down of 
the guild's taxes in skills, spells, or specials. This should 
be remedied ASAP, to be in compliance with the information
required under GUILDS in man domain_info and man guilds.

Plex needs to be recoded to use add_stun or add_attack_delay.
The time of effectiveness should to be shortened, as I believe
it is giving too great combat aid. Additionally, checks for 
plex efficiency should be added for weight and volume of the 
opponent, or at the very least, a check for a prop which wizards
may add to monsters which should not be plex-able.

Obviously, I think 4 skills to 90 is unwarranted in any guild.

The mtell spell and the halo spell are a bit of a stretch of
'fighter guild' reality...but then so is the Calian 'project'.
I expect that they are being appropriately taxed; however, there
should be a chance of failure the mtell...as far as I can tell,
it is much too reliable.

Monks have the best of both worlds as I mentioned in my note on
the guild board. They can fight well in dark and light, both 
with the help of such high blindfighting and a light/dark spell.
Additionally, they have the excuisite ability to toggle between
high unarmed and high polearm ability. --->I f the monks are 
to continue to be proficient with weapons and unarmed combat, 
I think they should not be able to use their unarmed specials 
(ie plex) when wielding a weapon or with unarmed option turned off. 

The monks are extra-ordinarily well-equipped fighters with few,
if any, drawbacks to go along with their myriad advantages. I
think this guild requires both recoding and rebalancing.

Yours,
Lilith


Message: 41
From   : Lilith
Subject: Monk balance issues (forwarded)
CC     : Lilith
Date   : Jul 19 1997

Author : Lilith
To     : Mona, Akeisha, Maniac, Olorin, Karath, Teth, Mercade, Glaurung,
         Khail, Shiva, Alaron, Quetzl, Sorgum and Rastlin
CC     : Lilith and Lilith
Date   : Jun 14 1997

Greetings,
It seems I write a note regarding the monks every few months or
so. Once again I will write, pointing out problems and possible 
solutions.

The doc in Roke/open/GUILDS does not provide a break-down of 
the guild's taxes in skills, spells, or specials. This should 
be remedied ASAP, to be in compliance with the information
required under GUILDS in man domain_info and man guilds.

Plex needs to be recoded to use add_stun or add_attack_delay.
The time of effectiveness should to be shortened, as I believe
it is giving too great combat aid. Additionally, checks for 
plex efficiency should be added for weight and volume of the 
opponent, or at the very least, a check for a prop which wizards
may add to monsters which should not be plex-able.

Obviously, I think 4 skills to 90 is unwarranted in any guild.

The mtell spell and the halo spell are a bit of a stretch of
'fighter guild' reality...but then so is the Calian 'project'.
I expect that they are being appropriately taxed; however, there
should be a chance of failure the mtell...as far as I can tell,
it is much too reliable.

Monks have the best of both worlds as I mentioned in my note on
the guild board. They can fight well in dark and light, both 
with the help of such high blindfighting and a light/dark spell.
Additionally, they have the excuisite ability to toggle between
high unarmed and high polearm ability. --->I f the monks are 
to continue to be proficient with weapons and unarmed combat, 
I think they should not be able to use their unarmed specials 
(ie plex) when wielding a weapon or with unarmed option turned off. 

The monks are extra-ordinarily well-equipped fighters with few,
if any, drawbacks to go along with their myriad advantages. I
think this guild requires both recoding and rebalancing.

Yours,
Lilith


Message: 49
From   : Akeisha
Reply  : Monks (forwarded)
CC     : Mccram
Date   : Aug 25 1997

Author : Mona
To     : Akeisha, Maniac, Olorin, Karath, Teth, Mercade, Glaurung, Khail,
         Morrigan and Louie
Date   : Aug  7 1997

    Hey there.  I said when I next logged in I'd mail you.  Also I've 
been wanting to discuss drawbacks for the monks with you.  The first and 
primary drawback I intend to give the monks is along the lines of 
playerkilling.  As I see it some of the monks special abilities are 
justified by the fact that "monks don't playerfight."  However, nice as 
that is in theory, it isn't a drawback because we all know they do 
whatever they damn well feel like. :)  So firstly I intend to install a 
feature whereby this is measured and effects specials.  Each monk's 
aura/nature/attitude (name not important) will be affected If he: 
attacks another monk, attacks a player, or steals from an fellow monk.  
Monks will still be able to attack for one of the three reasons 
currently allowed:  Defending one's loot, Defending one's spouse if 
one's spouse is attacked, and Defending one's self against attack.  
However, all attacks will affect the 'aura' and if the attack falls 
under one of the three exceptions then with full council investigation 
the blemish on the arua can be removed.  An attack on a fellow monk will 
cut the operation of a players specials by one half, an attack on a 
player will cut it by a quarter.  When a players aura reaches zero his 
specials will be totally inoperational.  "You try to Plexus, but you 
feel too guilty to concentrate on that."  *grin*  
    Other aspects of balance I have considered are how high polearm is 
considering unarmed.  I don't know exactly what I wish to do there yet.  
There has been talk of having Monk's choose to specialize in one or the 
other.  Though I am still a bit unhappy with that because I don't want 
to encourage the use of polearm from a thematic standpoint.  I am 
thinking that I'd like to make the polearm option considerably less 
attractive (if it is to remain).  An aspect that is due consideration, 
however, is that unarmed combat does considerably less damage than 
fighting with weapons.  Give a player an Excellent Halberd, BSA, Flaming 
Black Broadsword, or so on and he can do considerably more damage than 
his unweaponed opponent.  Without a weapon skill there is a distinct 
disadvantage.  Granted, it is a plus as a monk to be able to start the 
game without weapons, yet most with weapon skills also start the game 
with a droproom.  So it remains that, in general fighting, those with 
weapons will do better.  If the option of polearm remains (in some form) 
and unarmed is a primary option I would like to make it so that those 
who focus on unarmed (and do not train polearm) would be get some bonus 
if they fight in the way of true kahedan, without the weight of armours 
etc.  There would be a small allowance for things to be worn, such as 
various cloaks medailions and guild items, but not a whole lot else.  I 
was thinking along the lines of allowing for an AC of 15 or less, with 
no one item being allowed that is greater than 8.  If the AC is above 
those qualifications they fight normally, without bonus. 
    Additionally, with the lower unarmed combat skill of a player who 
trains polearm, the guild specials the effectiveness of Plex and other 
specials is decreased.  With respect to unarmed: while fighting unarmed 
and naked would give a bonus, the player is also naked and will take 
more damage when hit.  
    Also, the playerfighting rules are fairly strict and as far I know 
would be the only guild code in the game in which playerkills affect 
directly the formula for specials.  Also, since it is a well known fact 
that mortals live to find their way around such things, such as by 
avoiding getting a killing blow etc. playerkills will be measured not by 
wether a monk getts the killing blow, but by wether that monk was in 
combat with the individual who died.  If the Bob, the monk, is in combat 
with a player, stops fighting, and his friend and co-conspiritor *wink* 
or even a neighboring NPC, get's the killing blow within a few minutes 
of when Bob stopped fighting... Bob will still feel really guilty, 
knowing he is responsible for the death *wink*.
    Let me know what you think.  
Oh, on alien skills, and acrobat... I dropped climb, and the adjustment 
to polearm will certainly help that...  Though I will give you a better 
report later.
Mona

Message: 48
From   : Akeisha
Reply  : Monk special attacks (including Plexus) (forwarded)
Date   : Aug 25 1997

Author : Plugh
CC     : Mccram and Mona
Date   : Aug 25 1997

I have changed all the monk specials so that they now get a negative bonus
of between 0 and 100% depending on how well armoured they are and how
good weapons they are wielding.

The better armour / weapons they are currently wearing or wielding, the
less effective their specials will be, up to the point where they do not
work at all.

I am assuming, and hoping, that this will bring that part of the monks
guild within guidelines, and if it does not that you let me know what
parts of the special attacks still need to adjusted, or if the tax does.

Plugh

Message: 25
From   : Teth
Subject: Kaheda board note.
To     : Mona, Mccram, Skaro, Mekare, Katanya, Amelia, Finwe and Akeisha
CC     : Teth
Date   : Jun  1 1997

Hello,

I thought before I get flamed on the monk board by a wizard, I'd
explain the reason (and calculations) behind my note on the
Kaheda board.

The sum of skills that the monks offer, is 627 levels. This, on first glance, seems to be
within the rules as outlined in the guild documents. However, the
calcualtion does not take into consideration the skill levels that
should be calculated as alien skills (meaning they count two times
towards the total of 700). Alien skills for the monks, as defined
by the categorization of skills elsewhere, are herbalism, acrobat,
and hide. Since these can all be trained to 50 levels, they should
all be considered trained to 100 levels in a fighter guild,
as herbalism is a magicusing skill, and acrobat and hide are thief skills. So, in essence,
the monks train 777 skill levels, 77 more than the maximum allowed for
an occ guild.

Army of Angmar and Shadow Union guild masters have all rolled back skill
levels when I pointed out their miscalculations promptly, so I expect
the same would occur here.

Teth

Message: 15
From   : Arman
Subject: Monk ideas
To     : Mona, Mccram, Amelia, Finwe, Flippyjoe, Thundor, Plugh and Marisol
Date   : Aug 28 1997


Hi Rokels!

I've been keeping a fairly close eye on the 'monk affair', and am very pleased that the Kahedian monks are going to be updated.
After talking to Mona a while back, I have thought of a possible idea that will make monks a little more fun to play rolewise.

The idea involves monks spurning armours in general. As martial artistists, armour only gets in the way of their abilities, and thus would theoretically be avoided by most monks...
The thing is this puts them at a great disadvantage in game terms, so I was thinking that an unburdened monk not wearing any armours heavier than say robes or leather armour, would have their speed property increased.
For those who remember the wiz days, the avatars of wizards came down with pretty ordinary stats and no specials, but with their speed property doubled. That made a _huge_ difference in their fighting ability.
In this case, the increase in the monks martial speed could depend on their unarmed ability.

Anyway, just an idea that I think would fit quite nicely into any new plans for the monks :).

On another point... I really don't think halo should be returned as it is. For starters, with basically two different types of halos, it makes a distinctive division in the guild, which I think is bad.
I remember (this would be when Amelia was a monk/Hin warrior, so it goes back a while ;) ) when people  were afraid of attacking monks because if they did the whole monk guild would get behind that monk and basically slam the attacker...
to me I think its a shame it is no longer like that, and I think halo is one reason for that.
I think halo only has a place in the monks _if_ you decide to make different groups within the monks (eg guardian, sage, hermit etc.. a division which I strongly approve of).
Halo could be an advantage for that part of the branch that doesn't make use of the polearm skill (ie not guardians, but perhaps sage or hermit).
Also, that the type of halo can be chosen by the individual, and that perhaps spell components are needed? (make a practical use of the herbalism skill)

Anyway, these are just some ideas of my own. I hope you don't feel I have stepped over any boundaries in sharing them with you :)

Arman of Ansalon.

Message: 17
From   : Darien
Subject: Suggestions...
To     : Rowan, Nogard, Mona, Mccram, Amelia and Akeisha
CC     : Darien
Date   : Aug 28 1997

I was asked to mail if I had any suggestions, so here it the
suggestions come.  I didn't break things down into a tax doc
because I'm in mortal form. ;)  I just gave things a nice
gloss over and hope you can take what you want (if anything)
from it all....
Now here it is:

Specials:
axekick    -- Nearly useless now, and it could be recoded,
              but why worry about taxing us for extra
              combat specials?  Let's focus on two of them
              and let it be at that.
backflips  -- Don't worry about a recode.  Cute idea, but
              not worth the tax even if you allow us to
              strike at an opponent while flipping around.
              Let's focus our tax into two combat specials
              and get leaner but meaner.
halo       -- Recode it so that perhaps it is an expression
              of our "ki"... our energy.  Increase mana for
              it by a goodly amount, add a viable ability
              for it while neutral in addition to good and
              evil.  Keep this for both occupational and
              layman members.
maegiri    -- Leave it as a lesser combat special for the
              layman members.  Maegiri is a fast special
              that doesn't commit lots of damage but does
              reset quickly.  Drop it for occupational
              members, though.  We have better things to
              put our tax into.
mtell      -- Increase mana cost of our mtelling by a good
              amount, but keep it.  Mtell is a practically
              a Kahedan institution.  Keep this for both
              occupational and layman members.
plexus     -- Another Kahedan institution, plexus is truly
              what makes us monks.  Recode to acceptable
              standards, but keep the effects at present
              levels if possible and simply up tax to what
              percentage is necessary for balance.  As now,
              only occupational members would have plexus.
roundhouse -- Good combat special and well worth the tax.
              Keep it as is (if the code is acceptable) and
              just set appropriate tax on it.  As now, only
              occupational members would have plexus.

There are the specials....

Darien

Message: 18
From   : Darien
Subject: Suggestions, cont.
To     : Rowan, Nogard, Mona, Mccram, Amelia and Akeisha
CC     : Darien
Date   : Aug 28 1997

And here are the skills:

SKILL              LAYMAN                OCCUPATIONAL
focus              sup jour              sup guru
katas              sup jour              sup guru
blindfighting      sup jour              sup master
unarmed combat     sup jour              sup master/guru*
defense            sup jour              sup master/guru*
awareness          sup jour              sup craft/vet
herbalism          sup jour              sup craft/vet
acrobat            sup jour              sup jour

You will notice in the above list that I remove polearm
and add an additional skill named katas.  This new skill
would be something used in interaction with unarmed to
increase the chances to hit and the damage of our unarmed
strikes.  Named katas (or whatever) it would reflect our
advanced study of unarmed martial styles.  In essence,
unarmed combat would be made fully into our 'weapon' by
augmenting what can be done with it in our specific case.
This skill would also be used with roundhouse and plexus.
Unarmed combat would recieve a quest that could increase
it to superior guru, as would defense.  Appropriately
themed quests would be made for each, of course.
I suggest raising awareness to superior craftsman (or
even to superior veteran) for the same reasons Ghenna
suggested a raise: we're supposed to be more aware of our
environment and of existence in general.  So let's prove
our enlightenment. ;)
Herbalism is increased to reflect a non-magical healing
focus, as well as a general knowledge of the natural
environment which comes from our learning and studies.
With higher herbalism we will be able to gather and
identify more herbs.
Hide and sneak are stripped... while it could be thematic
if we stretched it, I think if we have specializations
later on, perhaps the hermit specialization could have
sneak or hide to assist in their separation from the
outside world.  But other than that, I don't believe we
have any thematic need for it now.

Well, that's all that.  I have other suggestions for the
individual specializations if we ever get to that, but here
is what I have for suggestions for the current situation.  I
hope any of it can be useful.  We have a lot of good ideas
going around out there, and I'm trying to get people to mail
or at least post on the board.  But there's a lot of worry and
disheartened spirit out there unfortunately.  Hopefully we'll
be able to find a good way through all this.
I don't envy the job you all have, and I hope you know that at
least some of us players appreciate the work and time you're
putting in to make our playing experience better.
Thank you for that! :)

Take care, all!

Warmly thine,

Darien (Frank)

Message: 12
From   : Kellendil
Subject: idea
Date   : Aug 27 1997



considering roke is primarily monkish.. especially
re albi, why does Refnas have such a lousy polearm?
I suggest that since he has been recoded he should also
get a decent polearm.. it could be something one handed
still, but give it the damage and accy of a bubba
polearm.  That will also make reffy do a bit more damage
and make him tough to take solo.


K.


P.S.  Did you get my idea about increasing the dependency
of wis on monk abilities?

Message: 25
From   : Bonk
Subject: suggestions to kaheda change.
To     : Mona, Amelia, Finwe, Flippyjoe, Thundor, Plugh, Marisol and Mccram
Date   : Aug 29 1997

Greetings all. I know that u are probably busy so I will try to make this note as short as I can and at the same time bring forth my ideas.

We all know that there are changes going on in kaheda guild. Though we dont what it will be and we dont for certain know what the players really wanna have for changes. After having analyzed the board discussed with a couple of players e.t.c this is what I would like the future should be like. I have read about other ideas ( like dividinig the guild in different sections) and I must say that some I like and I hope that the wizards snaps up the best part from the notes.

What I REALLY wanna to make us unable to stun non-human creatures. That would be realistic and would most certainly help us to get the taxe down.
That should also satisfy the AoB and the other arches. Many would of course leave the guild if they dont get compensated somehow.
Further I would like to make an UNARMED PARRY and maybe acrobatic should be coded as an unarmed parry. Though the definition between an parry and defence is rather dull ( if we would have an unarmed parry) but I like the idea. We would have more use by unarmed combat with it. Then I would like us to be able to have sup journeyman at least in blindfighting/polearm/acrobatic. And from that let us be able to spend 80 steps on these three skills. 
For example I would have sup journeyman in blindfighting sup master in polearm and sup master in acrobatic. Observe unarmed parry can not be used with a weapon.
Well that is all I think...I would gladly volounteer as a test char and evaluate any changes in monk guilds if u wanted me to.

Bonk, Enlighted priest of kaheda.

Message: 27
From   : Darien
Subject: Unarmed combat...
To     : Rowan, Nogard, Amelia, Mccram, Mona and Akeisha
CC     : Darien
Date   : Aug 30 1997

I'm going to be frank, since almost everyone here has coded,
or at least been around coders.  So I'll not mince words when
I say that unarmed combat, especially now that the stat changes
have occurred, is pretty useless against most creatures your own
size, let alone larger.
The reason?  Well, someone with sup guru unarmed combat and only
immortal strength will yet be paled by the hit and penetration of
probably a splendid sword... maybe even that of a sharp sword (I'm
expecting high 20s on hit and pen).
Since having immortal is quite the rarity nowadays, it effectively
nullifies unarmed combat as a useful "weapon" against any opponent
larger than yourself, especially if they have weapons appropriate to
their size.  An adventurer fighting a GA sized creature will probably
be facing also a weapon of 10+ hit and pen, which will probably make
their hit/pen from unarmed rather little.
Likewise, once you hit champ size, you begin fighting creatures with
weaponry that exceeds the 30s in hit and pen.
Therefore I beg that regardless of tax, either specials or some mask
to our unarmed combat be put into the guild that will increase our
fighting effectiveness, especially if our polearm (which doesn't
truly fit thematically, but oh, well...) is taken away.
Balance means we must pay more tax for greater ability, and unarmed
combat is powerful... it means we need no armour and no weaponry to go
forth and adventure.  But unarmed combat likewise has its (very great)
limitations.  And those limitations very obviously need to be
considered during the recode.  Otherwise we may have only a tax of
20% or so, but we will be ineffectual in combat, and thereby gutted as
a guild.

(Just my experiences after playing around with various levels of
unarmed and stats on another MUD, as well as my own here playing.)

Sorry for the length, all....

Message: 33
From   : Igneous
Subject: Ancient Kahedan Order Ideas
To     : Mona, Amelia, Finwe, Flippyjoe, Thundor, Plugh, Marisol and Mccram
CC     : Igneous
Date   : Sep  3 1997

	Hullo!  Having been once an OCC monk and a Layman monk of the 
kahedan order I thought I'd throw in my ideas for future skill levels and 
some ideas on how to revise the monks specials.

OCC SKILLS:

SS_UNARMED_COMBAT  100 (*This is very important... anything less than
			*this level of unarmed will make the guild a laughable
			*sham IMHO*)
SS_DEFENCE          94 (*Slight increase to compensate for loss of polearm*)
SS_BLIND_COMBAT     90 
SS_WEP_POLEARM      65 (*Encourage unarmed combat and live within the 
			*semi-planned restriction of 75 for secondary weapon
			*skills *)
SS_HERBALISM        65 * 2 (Alien skill)  (*Represents the monks healing 
					   *ability using the herbs found 
					   *in nature*) 
SS_AWARENESS        60 (*Reflects the monks training to be one his/her
			*surroundings*)
SS_LANGUAGE         60 (*Reflects a monks studies*)
SS_ACROBAT          50 * 2 (Alien skill)  (*Used in preforming kicks flips
					   *etc.....)

Total skills       699 out of 700 possible.
Tax for skills     7.642

LAYMAN SKILLS:
SS_UNARMED_COMBAT   50
SS_BLIND_COMBAT     50
SS_DEFENCE          50
SS_WEP_POLEARM      40
SS_HERBALISM        50 * 2 (Alien skill)
SS_ACROBAT          40 * 2 (Alien skill)

Total skills:      370 of 400
Tax for skills:     3.083

Tell-line for both OCC and LAY parts of guild. 4%

Public herb garden, Private Herbalist within the guild hall that will 
deal herbs at _cost_ (i.e. he'll make no money on the deal and give
monks full value for the herbs)  (1% because its deal available only to
guild members.)  (If you need help with the herbalist Shire has a lib you
can gladly borrow)

Working tax without specials:
OCC	12.642
LAY	 8.083

Now here is the My ideas on specials.
Skills:
2 special skills will be offered to be trained Focus used for the unarmed 
attacks throw and strike.  Kata for armed strikes.  There will be a set 
limit of 160 skill levels to be divided between the 2 so a member can 
choose what type of special he/she would like to specialize in. Layman 
members would have 80 levels available to them with a maxium set to 60 since
layman versions of OCC guilds specials can only be 60% as effective and 
setting the skill max to 60 is the easiest way to do this. Layman members 
would not have access to the throw special which replaces the old plexus.

Plexus: Change it to a throw, the more heavily loaded a person is the 
harder they fall thus increasing the stun. 
Restrictions:: Can not preform this while wielding a weapon or wearing
a shield... your hands must be free to do this throw.  Size difference
between the monk and the object being thrown is checked if the 
volume/weight ratio is greater than a set number or a number dependant on 
a monks skill or stats, they can not preform the throw. (This is to make it
impossible to throw dragons etc...)  Special based off the focus skill.

Strike:  A merging of all the previous special attacks into one.  
Desriptions should be varied and the forms should be vastly different.
No lame ("You preform a stike on the <enemy>.\nHe seems unarmed.\n") like 
the previous ones. Something more to this effect 
("You hit "+QCTNAME(enemy)+"'s "+hitloc+" with a powerful roundhouse 
kick, "+(enemy->query_prop(LIVE_I_UNDEAD) ? ("cracking the bone") : 
("leaving a deep bruise")) +".\n") 
I'm sure people can come up with better ideas than that if they put some more 
thought into it *grin*

Kata: A armed weapon strike using the weapon as an extension of your 
unarmed strikes... basically you'll be using the flat of a bladed weapon 
or a shaft of a polearm to injure your enemy.  This attack should be 
slower than the strike since it is more unwieldly and harder to preform
than an unarmed attack.

Tax for specials:
This will up to whomever creates this and whatever AoB approves of..
you'll probably want to keep OCC tax around 20% and layman under 12%.

I had some numbers and ideas of pen values and prep times etc.. for these
specials... if you wish to hear my thoughts on thoose please mail me and
I'll gladly mail them to you.

Igneous


Message: 44
From   : Darien
Subject: Elder Monks (forwarded)
To     : Amelia and Mccram
Date   : Sep 20 1997

Author : Darien
To     : Rowan, Nogard and Mona
CC     : Darien
Date   : Aug  9 1997

Rowan brought up the idea of requiring "elder" monks for the two
recommendations applicants must acquire.  So I was thinking how
to establish what an elder monk would be.
Do we have logged incept dates on joining?  I'd think we would,
just because most guilds do and it's an excellent log to have.
So... if we do, we could have a file compiling those monks who
have been members for three or six or however many months we may
choose are "elder".
Then downstairs near the Council plaque we could have a listing
of all current Elder Monks so that applicants could see who would
qualify for the formal recommendations.
What do people think of that?  It wouldn't be that difficult to code,
and, as Nogard pointed out, the code is mostly there already from
the dinner list.  We could even add "Elder" into the titles of
monks just to give a little more recognition for the older members.

Well, I hope you're enjoying Mexico, Mona.  Take care, all!

D.

Message: 37
From   : Spazbar
Subject: Guild Improvement Ideas
Date   : Oct  4 1997

Greetings Amelia,
 I'm sorry I can't make the Town Hall Meeting but I still would
like to forward my comments on guild improvements.
 As for skills, as long as all race guilds have a weapon to superior
journeyman I wouldn't mind giving up polearm for say alchemy or spell
casting to superior journeyman. As long as the occupational specials
are balanced with other guilds, I see no problem here.
 Second I'd like to see more guild specific alchemy, potions that
can only be mixed by monks, but can be used my all. The Rangers
have already set this guild precedent. Some suggestions follow:
Halo potion         reflects the quaffers alignment like spell.
Mana potion         restores mana perhaps like eating 3/5 suraine.
Infravision potion  like elf race guild ability.
Dexterity potion    boost dex stat and/or acrobat skill.
Stealth potion      boost ability to sneak and hide.
Headache potion  Intense and bigger headaches will lower stats, being
                 dwarven and fond of hard drink, I have searched the
                 world over for hangover cures and still no relief!
 Some improvements might be made to our grounds, like expand the herb
garden to 9 rooms and fix the well so we can (fill bottle with water)
in that location.
 Access for all players to an herb shop, an alchemy shop with vials,
mortars, buy/sell potions, like the one in Minas Tirith.
 Access for all to a grocery healthy foods shop, like the apples,
oranges, celery, etc. found in Gelan, while I'm on Gelan how about
selling some refillable bottles in this part of the world!
 Rebuild the library and restrict access to members only or perhaps
players teamed with members can enter. Put the join info in one book.
 I would also like to see more guild specific quests!
 These additions to our guild would not be out of character for any
monk guild themes, past, present or future.
 Be Well, Live Long and Prosper, Spazbar

Message: 44
From   : Bromen
Subject: suggestions
Date   : Oct 11 1997

hello my fair wizard lady, i would like to see our guild have different styles for our martial arts. darien has communicated with me that he likes them, and so told me to speak with you. here is my suggestion:  Our guild needs something new, and i would like to see our guild focus on three (or more) different fighting styles. everywhere i look, is ee that martial arts has to do with style more than anything, and the cool ones always seem to come with the monks.  i propose a Crane, Tiger, and Dragon techniq
   crane : plexus, and backflips (which would be fixed) and maybe a hold which effectivly stops the enemy from using his/her arms.
  Tiger: mae-geri, sweep, and jump kick
  Dragon : roundhouse, axe kick, chi punch (uses mana) and flip (throwing the enemy)
well, those are my suggestions, if you need a little bit more detail, feel free to mail me. i love this guild.

brother bromen

