

The Mercenaries 

Mirandus:
The idea was to give players an opportunity to have a mercenary that can assist them. Especially if smaller, in xping or exploring areas. They act as mules as well and can
carry items.  A "companion" like in Diablo 3, I suppose.  I could make them not be able to assist in attacks on players, only NPCs.  I'm not sure if they will be "must haves" or not. Idea
came from players double logging so they could have a teammate.  When I brought it up initially with Gorboth, he liked the idea. It's why I moved forward.  If they do become a "must-have" it
will create a money sink. But I'm not sure what the role they will play in game will be until we can test it with actual players.

Duration:
Mirandus tells you: Right now, until they die or you dismiss them.

-

From a balance point of view this essentially becomes combat aid for money. 
For the game this is likely to have the effect of being a required purchase for players. There is a large risk that
smaller players will not be able to sustain having a mercenary active.

Maintenance Cost
 - I think there should be a fee charged by the mercenary for the time it is active. This fee can then be used to lower the cost of
   mercenaries for casuals players who can't play for long durations.
   
Armageddon / Logout
 - Handling of Armageddon / Logout must be added. 
   Players will be very unhappy if they lose a 1000 platinum purchase from an maintenance armageddon.
   (Can be done with an autoloading object which summons the mercenary again)

Mercenary Power
  - Add some unarmed skill
   
Code Style
 - man code_standards
   Gorboth gets really unhappy if you don't follow that   
 - There is alot of code duplication. You'll be fixing the same bugs in 4 different files.
   Implement a base mercenary file which is inherited by the 4 levels.
 - Create a .h file (defs.h perhaps) containing paths and values we will be changing
   for example the costs.
 - Why are the defining custom attacks / hitlocs which are the same for ordinary humanoids?
 - Why LIVE_I_NO_CORPSE?
 - It needs to check if it's possible to teleport to a room before it teleports to the player.
 

