Ok, her kommer en del problem stillinger som jeg har angaaende council
til guilden.
Jeg skriver det paa engelsk, da det er lettest aa faa skrevet det jeg vil
si ;-)

To be able to join the guild, you would have to apply for it. The first member
one of the guildmasters (Rogon, odin) or dunstable can approve the first application
but those who come after that should be approved by the council.
Ok, the player applies for the guild. His name would be written into an application
file, an array with application names. Then either one of us mentioned above can
do 'list guild applies' f.eks. and get the names of those who have applied, later which 
the council should do. We should then either approve the apply, or deny the apply where
in both cases the name would be removed from the array, and a message be written to the 
player when he comes to check his application in the room where this is done. If the 
apply is approved a property could be set in the player to let him join the guild in 
the join room, so that the room where you join checks for this prop. When he/she has
joined the prop is removed, proper bits set, if they are to be used, and he/she can 
start training or whatever the player wants to.

So, conclusion:
	The first problem I have is how to handle the application system, with writing the
	name of the applier into an array, check to see if the player already is applying,
	deny/accept the apply and removeing the name from the array, and giving the council
	or guildmasters a 'list guild apply' command to see who is applying for the guild.
	The last i think is rather easy to do.

Second problem:
	
New council members should be elected with voting, and only replacing one with a majority
of votes. Should only council members vote, or should all be able to?

Third problem:

The council should be able to ban players not obeying the rules, killing newbies, or
acting against what the council seems fit and is written in the rules. The ban might
either be training banishment, or banishment against using spell lists, either all, or
specific spell lists. The last banishment is a complete guild banishment which will
forever ban the player from the guild, never being able to join it again, forever and
ever!

Hmm, thats all i could come up with now for the council, if you have anything to add, 
please notify me about it :-)

Odin.

