                     Council Punishment Commands

  Unpunish  - Removes a punishment that is currently pending.
              Will not undo rank punishments, but will cancel punishments
              that block the use of skills, spells, trading or training.
  Notrade   - Prevents from trading in the hideouts shops and pubs.
              Will not prevent trade in non-Ranger shops or pubs.
  Notrain   - Prevents from training skills in Ranger hideouts.
              Will not prevent training in other guilds or adventurers halls.
  Noaccess  - Prevents entering the Ranger hideouts.
  Noskills  - Lowers the ability to use special Ranger skills.
               Will not block normal skills or totally prevent Ranger skills.
  Nospells  - Will lower the ability to use Ranger magic.
               NOT IMPLEMENTED YET
  Noabilities - Will work as Nospells and Noskills combined.
                NOT FULLY IMPLEMENTED YET - see Nospells
  Degrade   - Will lower the rank of the Ranger.
              Affects title and Ranger-skills in general.
  Reward    - Will raise the rank of the Ranger.
              Affects title and Ranger-skills in general.
  Commend   - Smaller version of Reward.
  Pupilize  - Will make the Ranger a pupil again.
              Throws the Ranger out of the Company, decreasing some skills,
              and lowering the rank. Only for members of your Company.
  Expel     - Will throw the person out of the Rangers.
              Person will lose skills as when leaving, but can rejoin.
  Ban       - Will throw the person out of the Rangers, and ban him.
              Person will lose skills as when leaving, and cannot rejoin.
  Outlaw    - Will throw the person out of the guild, and outlaw him.
              Leads to loss of skills, and the reputation of outlaw in Gondor.
              NOT IMPLEMENTED YET


       The punishment is done by: '<command> <who> for <reason>'
     It will be executed immediately if the Ranger is logged in,
     or it will be pending for next time the Ranger logs in.
     The punishment will be logged, and the log can be accessed by:
     'read punishlog'.  Only one punishment/reward can be stored at a time.
