Detailed look at the Firewalkers.

For reference, here is the old spell list:

Everywhere in this document, when I refer to a potion being a component,
it means that you quaff the potion, then you can keep casting the spell
as long as the potion lasts.


-Tell line. 5 mana. Component: Collectible at guild.
-Name forget. 24 mana. Target forgets you. Component: Collectible at guild.
-Alcohol. Duration 4 minutes. 28 mana. Summons a container of alcohol.
Component: A potion made out of water and poison ivy.
-Blind. Duration 40 seconds. 46 mana. Targets LIVE_I_SEE_DARK property is
reduced by 10, usually causing blindness. Needs laminaria to cast.
-Peace. 46 mana. Caster makes peace with all enemies. Component: A potion
made out of water and elkhorn kelp. 
-Wall of fire. Duration 3 minutes. 96 mana. Blocks an exit. Component:
Potion made out of fucus and water.
-Fire shield. Duration 10 minutes. 80 mana. Creates a shield around caster
of AC 30. Component : Potion out of water and bull kelp.
-Healing. 120 mana. Heals 100 + guildstat/2 hp. Component: Fireweed and
brown slime.
-Flame arrow. 64 mana. A bolt of 300 pen. Component: Potion made out of
components collectible at guild, and alcohol.
-Light. 24 mana. Duration 5 minutes. Component: Collectible at guild.
-Fireball. 96 mana. A bolt of 400 pen. Component: Potion made out of
coral alga and alcohol.
-Nightvision. 96 mana. Duration 10 minutes. 2 levels of LIVE_I_SEE_DARK.
Component: Potion made out of sea lettuce and water.
-Flame wind. 120 mana. Bolt with 500 pen. Component: A potion made out of
salt wort and alcohol.
-Invisibility. 150 mana. Duration 15 minutes. Standard invisibility and
a level of LIVE_I_SEE_INVIS. Component: Potion of sea bubble and alcohol.
-Resist fire. Duration 3 minutes. 130 mana. Gives fire resistance of 45. 
Component: Potion of sargassum and water.
-Daylight. Duration 8 minutes. 88 mana. Provides 2 levels of light. 
Requires laminaria to cast.
-Shapechange. 150 mana. Lasts until out of mana, drains 25 mana every
100 seconds. Only technical effect is disguise. Component: A potion with
fireweed and alcohol.
-Column of fire. 216 mana. Bolt with 600 pen. Component: A potion with
sargassum, poison ivy and alcohol.
-Nova. 216 mana. Bolt with 900 pen that hits all enemies. You need to be
shapechanged to use it. Component: Potion with laminaria, surf grass
and alcohol.
-Flame weapon. 4 minutes. 152 mana. Increases a weapons hit and pen with
10, with a limited number of uses on a particular weapon. Uses a potion
with laminaria, fireweed and alcohol. 

All spells require the skills channeling and SS_ELEMENT_FIRE. Channeling
is a special Walker skill that's used as form skill for all the spells.
The spells "Flame weapon", "Resist fire", "Invisibility", "Nightvision",
"Light", "Fire shield", "Heal" and "Alcohol" can be cast on any target, 
not just self.


The numbers used here should be considered a rough guess at the spells
power - They will be tweaked of course. If the proposed 
components/mana cost aren't considered to be in tune with the power 
of the spell, it would as a rule be more desirable to up the 
components/mana cost than reduce the spell power.

Proposed revised spell list:

-Tell line. Only a cosmetic change here. It will appear as a fire 
spirit whispering a message to the recipent - thus visible to others
in the room. Conjuration spell.
-Light. Only cosmetic change, except no longer castable at others
than self. Not stackable. Conjuration spell.
-Blind. Component change to the herb smooth camas. Conjuration spell.
-Wall of fire. Blocks an exit. Players with enough dis can pass, but
take damage. Dis needed could be equal to three fourths of casters
intelligence. Damage could be resolved by a hit_me with five times
casters int as pen, or negative heal_hp of three times casters int.
Component is now a potion made out of alcohol and gray willow.
Mana unchanged. Conjuration spell.
-Flame shield. Doesn't offer any defensive bonus as such, but damages
attackers with each hit they make. The shield provides a level of 
light also. The damage the attacker takes with each melee blow would 
be equal to the damage the blow dealt, with a certain maximum 
dependent on the Walkers skills/stats. Component: Cranberry and some 
collectible item from the guild. Mana cost and duration unchanged, 
and it cannot be cast on others than self. Conjuration spell.
-Flame arrow. Bolt, with a penetration of :
2*guildstat + fire skill + dex + conjuration skill, to a maximum
of 500. The bolt can be aimed at a certain location, and if this 
location is unarmoured, the bolt receives +40% pen. A potion
mixed out of fireweed and alcohol would be the component. Mana
cost 75. Conjuration spell.
-Enrage. Target gets a 50% increase in discipline, and a 50%
reduction of dexterity. When the spell wears off after five 
minutes, the target should lose 90% of fatigue points. 
Only works if target is fighting, and the spell can't be "stacked".
Mana cost: 110. Component: the herb chicory and some component 
collectible at the guild. Enchantment spell.
-Resist fire. Same as the old spell, except that the duration goes
up to five minutes, and the component is now just the herb
fireweed, not a potion. It can still be cast on others to protect
them. Abjuration spell.
-Flame wind. Bolt, with a penetration of two times the penetration
of the "Flame arrow" spell, to a max of 1200. All armours the target
is wearing, that aren't magical or above AC 20, are consumed by the 
spell. Mana cost 160, component is a potion of fireweed, gray willow
and alcohol. Conjuration spell.
-Luminosity. Walker becomes as bright as the sun, emitting 5 light
levels. Not stackable, 80 mana, component is black currant. Duration
is 15 minutes. Enchantment spell.
-Flame weapon. Summons a staff of flame. It's a polearm with a
hit and pen of: (guildstat + fire skill + conjuration skill) / 5.
Max is 60/60. It will have special hit descriptions and do a
heal_hp of -random(150) with each blow that hits. The spear can't 
be un-wielded for the duration (though it is possible to dismiss 
it), nor given away. Duration is 20 minutes. Mana cost 120.
Components: Fireweed and cladina. Conjuration spell.
-Fire spirit. A vengeful fire spirit arrives and hunts a target.
This won't be an NPC as such, but keeps damaging the target for a
duration. It would deal damage somewhere between 10 and 20 times,
with 5-10 seconds between each time. A hit_me of 300-400 pen
each time. This spell *can* be stacked. Mana cost: 180. Component
is a potion of fireweed, black currant, poison ivy and alcohol.
Conjuration spell.
-Burst of light. Blinds and does add_attack_delay to all others 
in the room. Attack delay is half the duration of the blindness.
Blindness lasting 30-60 seconds. Mana cost 150. Components are
Chicory and beaked sedge. Conjuration spell.
-Fire storm. This is a bolt that hits all present enemies. Damage would
be equal to the "Flame wind" spell except with a ceiling of 1500. Mana
cost 200. Component: Potion of fireweed, chantrelle, grey willow and
alcohol. Conjuration spell.
-Hellscape. Room temperature increases by a couple of hundred degrees
or so. People with high fire resist are safe, others keep taking damage.
The caster is not excluded from the effect, unless of course he cast
resist fire on himself first. The damage is equal to a random number
between 100 and 200 every 5-10 seconds for 15-20 times. This spell 
can't be stacked. Since NPCs do not normally know to move out of 
danger, the spell would include code to give a certain % chance for
an NPC to try and flee with each time damage is dealt. Mana cost:
220. Component: Onoclea, cladina and poison ivy. Enchantment spell.

The Walker guild will have a total of six cooperative spells, only
usable with two Walkers present of different elements. These spells
have not yet been planned in detail, but here's a preliminary
suggestion for the ones involving fire:

-Fire/Water: Boiling blood. Persistent damage spell.
-Fire/Air: Flaming chariot. Summons a chariot that can fly to any
outdoor location in the Realms that has been marked. Up to four
Walkers can board it.
-Fire/Earth: Lava globule. Bolt spell, destroys equipment randomly.

Component rarity and value:

Only in Eldoral:
-Onoclea, find 6, value 365.
-Chantrelle, find 9, value 160.

Calian moors:
-Fireweed, find 8, value 1232
-Grey willow, find: 4, value 214. 
-Cladina, find: 7, value 930.
-Chicory, find 5, value 564.
-Cranberry, find: 4, value 246. 
-Black currant, find 4, value 40.
-Smooth camas, find: 7, value 20.

Beach:
-Poison ivy, find 2, value 10.



As you can see, a Firewalker gets a good deal of offensive versatility,
but no tools with which to get out of trouble other than trying to
kill what's hurting him. On this list there are 14 spells, while the
old one had 20. The more powerful spells need more components than
before, but mana costs have been reduced overall. I haven't done a tax
appraisal yet, and to tell the truth it doesn't concern me greatly
where we end up with respect to tax. I think most players will pay
tax to have more fun (at least the ones we want in this guild).

The main thing with the skill change is to make use of the form
skills instead of the old channeling skill, which was something of
an easy way out. Combat skills have been reduced, though not entirely
removed, as I don't see it as possible to function in Genesis without
some kind of combat skill. Polearm is the obvious choice to me, as
axes, swords and maces are really fighters weapons. Of course, halberds
are fighters weapons too, but at least staves are included in the
polearm category. Polearms also have long reach, so one can keep
out of harms way. 



Skill changes:

Old skill list:

Channeling: 100.
Spellcraft:  90.
Fire magic:  90.
Alchemy:     90.
Language:    75.
Awareness:   75.
Herbalism:   75.
Defence:     70.
Polearm:     50.

New proposed skill list:

Magic ritual:100.
Spellcraft:   90.
Fire magic:   90. 
Alchemy:      60. (+20 if specialized)
Conjuration:  80.
Enchantment:  60.
Abjuration:   40.
Language:     70. (+20 if specialized)
Awareness:    70.
Herbalism:    70. (+20 if specialized)
Defence:      50.
Polearm:      50.

        
The magical ritual skill is for using cooperative magic. The
level/title system the guild will use is in 
~Calia/walkers/WalkerTitles.txt.

