Walker history and theme.

    Note that this text is written in more the style of an
encyclopedia entry, for wizard benefit, and that texts available 
in the guild library will be written from the perspective of a 
Walker.


    It all started when Appolonius, a scholar of Calia, came upon 
some ancient scrolls and documents that had been preserved in a 
waterproof container in Thalassia. These dated all the way back to
the Kyrulian civilization and described their rites and teachings.
Appolonius, excited by this finding, brought the material back to
his study and spent months going through it. An arrogant, but
brilliant academician, he was at first disappointed that these
scrolls seemingly detailed simple clerical rites and ceremonies. 
He already knew of the Worshippers of Thalassia and that most of
their teachings was presumably based on old Kyrulian traditions, 
he had however hoped that the documents might shed some more light
on the source of the elemental power. Granted, the Worshippers
were given their abilities by the elementals, but from where did
the elementals draw their power? Where did the elementals live, for 
that matter?
    Using the old Kyrulian scrolls, coupled with some new insight of
his own, he devised a ritual that would summon and trap a fire 
elemental. The Worshippers of Thalassia use similar rituals, but 
there the elemental is always free to go. Appolonius completed the 
ritual successfully and threatened to destroy the elemental by 
immersion in water if it didn't give him some answers. He didn't get
much out of it, as it was apparent that the elemental possessed an 
alien intelligence, making communication difficult. The meeting with
the elemental led Appolonius to hypothesise that other planes exist,
that are the source of power. It seemed obvious to him that reality
was made up of the four elements earth, water, air and fire - thus he
conveived of four elemental planes. From further meetings with the
elemental, and years of trial and failure, he was at last able to
draw power from these planes in the same way the elementals do to
perform their magic. He also ceased to think of Pyros, Gu, Diabrecho
and Aeria as gods. They were elementals like any other, except more
powerful than most. He didn't think they ruled their respective 
elemental planes any more than a single being could rule all of the 
material world. In all likelihood, more powerful elementals existed.
    He recruited scholars he knew from around the Realms and founded
an arcane society for the study of elemental magic: The Elemental
Walkers. It was divided into four colleges, one for each element, and
central policies were set by a council known as the Assembly with
four chairs, one for the Principal of each college. Appolonius held
the seat for the college of fire, and was the first Chairman of the
Assembly.
    Now, in a short period of time, many things were discovered.
Firstly, it became clear that one being only had the ability to use
one of the elements. Furthermore, the ability to utilize elemental
magic seemed closely tied with the nature of the caster. The angry 
and passionate could use Fire. The calm and caring could use Earth. 
The unpredictable and moody could use Air. The laconic and 
philosophical could use Water. Thus many of the scholars Appolonius
had recruited were forced to leave the society, as they lacked the
gift. As the members of each college were so different from the
others in terms of personality and nature, it was decided that each
college would be self-governing, the Assembly only handling major
issues affecting the guild as a whole. Indeed, there was so much
friction between the members in the beginning that it almost seemed
the colleges would go their separate ways and reject the authority of
the Assembly - and perhaps this would have happened, if not for an
important discovery; Walkers of different elements could perform
magic together, thereby combining the elements into effects both more
powerful and subtle than would be possible using only one element.
Pyros, Gu, Diabrecho and Aeria had created the lands of Calia by
working elemental magic together.
    Cooperative magic became a major focus of research - and it was
impossible to study this without the having the colleges work
together. Most of the Walkers resolved their differences, inventing
many new spells. Through a ritual involving all of the members, a 
great tower was constructed in a day - a tower that serves as their 
home to this day.
    A growing faction in the Walkers wanted to take a more active
role in the world, using their powerful magics as an instrument of
change. The Assembly forbade this, initially. However, Appolonius, 
who was the most adamant advocate for neutrality and just being a 
research society, was lost in an attempt to travel to the plane of 
Fire. His successor, Pennegan, developed a charter for the Walkers
in an attempt to preserve Appolonius' vision of the Walkers as an 
academic society, yet make allowances for members with a will to
use their magic for more practical purposes. It stated that each 
Walker was free to try to effect changes in the world, within 
specific guidelines. For one, whatever they did, they did as 
individuals. The guild as a whole would not get involved in worldly 
politics, nor would it act in aid of individual Walkers who had 
gotten themselves in trouble. Though, certain measures would be 
taken if members were unduly persecuted. Furthermore, no Walker was 
allowed to destroy anything unique in the world. Indeed, they were 
encouraged to act in defence of species and societies that were 
threatened with total destruction. If it happened that something was
lost after all, the Walkers should carefully record its passing lest 
it fade into oblivion. No distinction would be made between a vile
plague rat and a noble unicorn. In short, the Walkers were allowed
to use their magic in the world as long as balance was preserved.
This doctrine was adopted by the guild and remains to this day.
    The Walkers recruited new members mainly from the ranks of the
Worshippers - the brightest and most capable of them. The reason for
this was simple.. the Worshippers tended to draw people of the right
temperament and disposition to be elemental mages, even though their
teachings were erronous. Those who were offered membership in the
Walkers, but refused to abandon their elemental worship, were made to
forget about the Walkers and sent on their way.

Present: 
    A few years has passed since this happened. Some members keep a 
hand in events around the world, trying to ensure that the ignorant 
masses do not inadvertently or willfully diminish the diversity of 
the lands. Many are quite passionate about this, though most of the 
older members are content to stay in their tower and work on research
projects. The four members of the Assembly have all served for 
decades and have decided on a joint withdrawal from the council 
duties, naming four successors from the eldest of the current members. 

Note about the Walkers of Thalassia:
    A few particularly fervent Worshippers were granted gifts beyond 
what the other Worshippers received by the creators of Calia. Their 
history and downfall is recorded in a journal by Anfalas, the last 
of them. This journal was secured by one of our members, but we have
not yet found the scroll it referred to.


Guild rules and guidelines:

Goals:
-The Walkers have two main goals. One is research and development
into elemental magic, especially cooperative magic. All members are
required to take part in this. Our other goal is to preserve the
diversity and balance in the world. Members are encouraged to work
towards this end, but it is not required. The guild does not organize
such activity, all who choose to pursue this do so as individuals.
-Furthermore, Walkers should have some academic pursuits. Having 
knowledge in many fields is a benefit to any scholar, and we
encourage activity in areas such as literature, languages, herb lore
and alchemy. Contributions to the library are valued.

Secrecy/conduct:
-The goals and inner workings of the Walkers are not to be known to 
outsiders, nor are their capabilities or knowledge of the elements. 
-Working magic around non-trusted outsiders should only be done in 
a discreet manner or not at all. The exception to this is self-
defence, when appropriate and decisive force may be employed without
concern for appearances.
-Any meddling a Walker does in the interest of balance should be kept
as discreet as possible, and appear the work of someone acting on 
their own. This is to avoid dragging the guild itself into conflicts.
We should win, of course, but it's in our own interest to not appear 
in the picture.
-All Walkers are to treat each other with the respect and courtesy
due a fellow scholar. This entails, of course, that no Walker shall
attack another. Any good scholar must be able to set aside personal
differences and work with others, and be able to keep an open and 
clear mind. This doesn't mean that everyone has to be friends or 
even like each other.
-No Walker shall join any guild or group that engage in worship,
and no oath nor fealty shall be sworn that may result in coming
into conflict with the goals of the Walker guild.

Politics:
-The Walkers are an independent guild, and will not form alliances
with other organizations. Cooperation on a guild basis is limited
to the mutual exchange of non-vital knowledge.
-The word of the Assembly is the law of the guild, but the Assembly 
will only convene to rule on matters concerning the guild as a whole.
-The internal affairs and daily running of each College is left to
the Principal of that College, whose authority binds its members.

Apprentices/advancement:
-The Walkers do not accept applications for membership. Instead,
people who are deemed to have both gift for elemental magic and the
necessary academic disposition will be approached by members of the
guild for apprenticeship.
-Apprentices may be taken by anyone of Scholar level or above, and
are all subject to approval by the Principal of that College. A poor
apprentice may compromise the whole guild, therefore the Principal
must confer with the rest of the Assembly to see if there are any
issues with the potential apprentice.
-Apprentices advance to mage status at the discretion of the 
Principal of the College and the mentor. Further advancement within
the guild to Scholar and Sage level is at the discretion of the
Principal alone. 