The Legend of Erek-Abhe

Of all the mages ever to come to Roke's mage's school, Erek-Abhe was the greatest.  His wisdom and power soon enabled him to become Archmage, which he did with great ceremony and celebration.
With his art Erek-Abhe created two items of great power, a staff and a ring.  The staff and the ring together held the power of peace, and as long as a mage remained Lord of Roke, with these items there would be peace among the islands.
The only creatures unaffected by these items were the Dragons of Pendor.

One great old wyrm humiliated by Erek-Abhe in the past had vowed to kill the young mage. He flew for days and nights and eventually reached an outcrop of rock near Roke's mage school.
From there he challenged Erek-Abhe to a test of magic and physical endurance.
In the name of peace, Erek-Abhe accepted.

Thus the test began, the air was filled with magic beyond comprehension as Erek-Abhe's full power was put to the test.
At long last the Dragon struck a killing blow, shattering the staff and breaking the ring of peace into two.   The powers released by the explosion were tremendous, hurling the staff fragments over the sea to be lost.  The ring, likewise was hurled away.

When the smoke and dust settled, nothing remained of either Erek-Abhe or the Dragon.  This area became known as Dragons Reach.

To this day there has been no lasting peace on any or the lands of Earthsea, and war is strife.
Legend holds that bringing the staff and the ring together again and passing them to the Archmage of Roke will bring great peace and reward.


This is a major quest, one which will centre around all the islands of Earthsea.
The locations of the pieces of the staff can be determined at our discretion, but the one part of the ring is on the island of Springwater, with the other lying deep within the undertombs on Atuan.
You may remember that Ged was stranded on this island and befriended the two haggard people that he found had lived there all their lives.  The old woman rewarded his kindness with one half of the ring.  Ged blessed their well so that it ran clear always, hence the name of the island.
I would suggest that the ring still be on the island, but have the island now a base for pirates / kargs.  Perhaps the pirate / karg captain wears the half ring around his neck?
The tombs will be the second part of the quest, and will be much harder, with many puzzles and plenty of thinking to do. 

I would hope that Atuan will be a place for 'role-playing', by which I mean that I want most of the characters, if not all, to be responsive in different ways to questions asked of them.  If you have ever played any of the 'Ultima' series, you will probably know what I mean.
I think this will work well, and make the players think.  Each character will have his/her own hopes, dreams and motives, and possibly their reaction to the players can be modified depending on the players actions around them.
I.e. kindness will be rewarded, violence will cause the NPC's to be non-responsive until the players atone.

I plan to keep the general map of the area the same, with visitors arriving in the small fishing village of Gar, which would be on the north eastern tip of the island.
All the areas will be updated to be more in line with the books.
Travelling northeastward leads to Entat, a Kargish village from which raids on the other islands would be launched.
This part of Atuan is quite fertile, and farming can take place on this part of the island.
As you travel inwards, Atuan becomes more desert like, and most of the Southern portion of the island is taken up by the Wastes of Atuan, an area of scorching heat and dust storms.
The tombs of Atuan are located here in the centre of the wastes.

Travelling north from the tombs, and directly east from Gar, there is a river which runs through the desert to the sea.  The tombs are located approximately 1/2 mile from the river, and although it is green with Algae, and other plant materials, it is drinkable, and has a fish population.
The area on either side of the river is therefore quite fertile.

At the source of the river where it runs clear, lies the Capital of Atuan - Awabath.   
The Godking of Atuan resides here in all his splendor.  This will be a very oppulent city, as the Godking is fond of displaying his wealth and power.

South, and on the other side of the river is another 'city' ; probably no more than a large settlement.
This is Tenacbah.  I am going to assume that this is populated by Nomadic Travellers, who traverse the wastes trading in gold, silks, slaves and pelawi furs from the other islands.  This camp will be semi permanent, something like Neraka is currently, but with more 'flavour' and atmosphere.

The main area as I said is the tombs, and I will develop these fully including the labyrinth below the Nameless temple.  There are three temples, a large and small house, slave pens, eunuchs huts, orchard, sheep & goat pens etc.
Quite a lot can be placed here, as well as a number of quests including, as mentioned earlier, the major quest for the ring of Erek-Abhe.


Other quest ideas :

1.  Keep the kittenquest - If we dont place this on Gont, I would like to place it back on Atuan.                            The basic quest will remain unchanged, but I will try to make the kitten more of a companion once the quest is done.  I.e. a few more emotes, maybe a personality.  'Amelia's kitten slashes your face viciously, and it hisses and spits at you'
2.  The Karg 'Gem' quest.   The background again is the same, i.e to find and replace the gem that was stolen from the temple.  This time the temple will be one of those at the tombs.
3.  A sneak raid on the Karg ships docked in Entat.   Prevent further raids by burning the two Kargish longships docked there.  Complicated by vicious aggressive guards, who will put out fires if they are still alive.  Burning could be done by 3-4 oil flasks smashed on deck and set alight.   Watch as the players get trapped below decks by aggressive guards whilst the ship burns down round them.  As well as third degree burns, check SS_SWIM to see if they can float !!      This has great entertainment value.

Others as I think of them.

As always, I would appreciate feedback on any of the items raised here.
You should have read the books, and know where and what I'm talking about (hopefully).

Regards,

Varl.

n.b.  After I had written this I found a file 'gont_port_quests' - Lo and behold the captain of the guard is going to have a ship burning quest also.
Just goes to show - great minds think alike :) 




