
Membership
==========

Any player that is not undead is able to join the Bloodguards.  To do so,
they must offer their blood to the statue, who will then give them the
chance to drink a bit of blood in return.  They will grow fangs and then
be able to use the bite special.

Once a member is a Bloodguard, they should find a master.  This is a 
vampire who they guard - a vampire may have as many bloodguards as they
wish, though a Bloodguard will have no master, or one master.  Some of
the magic spells of the Bloodguard cannot be used without a master.

The Bloodguard cannot gain access to the rooms beyond the statue unless
they either have a master, or have been explicitly allowed in by any
vampire.  This restricts access to the start room, racks, library and
post office, which are intended for those who the Coven trusts.  At any
time a vampire can reject or accept a present Bloodguard to change their
status.

As a Bloodguard, they have a subset of the vampire emotes, mostly
involving their fangs. 

The Bloodguard may willingly leave the layman guild, though the statue
will kill them for doing so. They are warned that death is the only
way out before they joined the guild.

Vampires can come from one of two sources - first, they can be converted
by the statue from the old vampire guild. They will retain their old
guild stat, but must leave any racial guild they have joined before they
can do so. Most other relevant information (age, sire, generation) is
copied over automatically, and the Covenmaster maintains that role in
the new guild.

Any vampire can also turn a Bloodguard into a vampire - but the new one
must have been a vampire for a minimum period of time. The Bloodguard
will die for this, as this is the usual cost of joining the guild.  Upon
doing so, they will be converted from a Bloodguard into a Vampire, with
their guild stat being moved from layman to occupational slot. Their
Sire must have been the Bloodguard's current master.

A vampire may willingly leave the Coven at any time.  They do not take
a second death, as they have already had the penalty of dying.

A vampire may be expelled, which requires two steps.  First, a vote must
take place (described below) to remove them. Second, they must be killed,
or have their coffin destroyed while they sleep in it. In the case of 
'coffin death' there is no actual death - they are simply removed from the 
guild. Any vampire who wakes to a destroyed coffin will start in the
statue room, at barely alive, or back in Sparkle, if they were voted out.

Any vampire that is in the process of being voted out, will fail to have
new children - embraced bloodguards will simply die.  Similarly, if
the vampire has lost the vote of expulsion, they cannot take new
children, or flood the guild with members in an attempt to spoil it.
They will still be a vampire until killed through coffin or death.


Council
==========

All vampires of a certain age in the guild have the ability to vote on
two issues - to expel a vampire, and to vote in a new Covenmaster.  The
Covenmaster may also willingly hand their position to another vampire.

The Covenmaster has a few responsibilities.  First, they control the
title systems for both the Bloodguards and Vampires.  They can create
the exp-based titles and the honorary titles for any of these.

Second, the Covenmaster's vote carries more weight in any vote - this 
will likely be 1/4 to 1/3 of all votes on an issue.

Voting
==========

Any vampire may start a vote. There are two things that they may vote on -
to take control of the Coven as Covenmaster, and to expel another member.
These votes are started in the statue room.  Every member, when they
login, is given the chance to vote on outstanding issues.  If the 
Covenmaster's rule is challenged, they will automatically vote against it,
and a vampire to be expelled will similarly vote in their own best
interest.  Neither will be made aware that the vote is taking place.

Each vote will run for 4 weeks - a long time, but suitable since the
guild members are often asleep for long periods of time.

Any vampire that starts a vote must risk their life - if the vote fails,
they will be killed for sowing dissent within the Coven.  In order for
the vote to succeed, at least 3 vampires must vote for it, as well as
the majority count.  As mentioned above, the Covenmaster's vote will
carry more weight, as they have greater responsibility within the guild.
This will likely translate to 1/4 or 1/3 of the total count - meaning
that the large majority of the guild will have to disagree in order for
the Covenmaster's vote to be overridden.

