Penalties
==========

- sunlight: shadow/sunlight.c

    The vampire takes damage from sunlight in two forms - both as a CON
    drain and also physical damage.  
    
    A typical room in Middle Earth and Krynn adds 30 levels of sunlight
    at noon - some add 40.
    
    The potential CON drain to the vampire is (sunlight * 2) % - meaning
    that a vampire potentially takes a 60-80% CON drain while in the
    sun at noon.  They lose CON at a speed of 1 point per 5 seconds.
    
    The sunlight also does damage every 5 seconds as well.  30 sunlight
    will cause 12 points of damage every 5 seconds.
    
    The vampire has two ways to mitigate this effect.  First, they get
    (vamp stat/10)% resistance - meaning an 100 avg vampire will only
    take 50% CON drain. Even the strongest vampires at 300 ag will
    still take 30% CON drain.
    
    Second, local darkness on a vampire can mitigate some of the effects.
    Every level of darkness that a vampire carries can reduce the
    effects by 5 levels of sunlight.  This means for a vampire carrying
    one level of darkness, they would receive a 40% CON drain at noon.
    
    Due to the fact that the potential CON drain is often in the 40-50%
    range, I have applied a 2% tax reduction.  50% CON drain is certainly
    more of a penalty than the 12% combat aid that 2% tax would pay for.
    
    
- blood: shadow/blood.c

    Every ability that the vampire uses will cost blood.  This is 
    typically at a rate of (mana / 4) for each spell they cast.  There
    are af few exceptions which charge mana / 8.
    
    A vampire has a maximum of 40 + guild stat worth of blood that they
    can hold at any time.  Compared to mana, they only get 1/10 as much
    blood as they do mana - meaning the blood cost for all abilities is
    more taxing bloodwise than manawise.
    
    A lack of blood will cause several effects.  First, they must have
    blood to pay for their abilities.   Second, their fatigue and health
    regeneration rates are tied directly to their blood level.  Third,
    if their blood drops below 0, they will experience torpor.  In torpor,
    ALL their skills (save bite) will be drained by one point per missing 
    point of blood.  Deep enough torpor can potentially push their entire
    skills to novice.
    
    A vampire also pays blood for 3 more things - moving, being in combat
    and being in the sun.  Every (vamp stat*2) seconds, the vampire is
    checked whether they are in combat, in the sun, or have moved since
    last checked.  For each of these, one point of blood is drained.  If
    they have not moved, they have a 1 in 15 chance of also randomly 
    losing a unit of blood.  Drained abilities (skills/resistance/etc)
    will also vanish at a rate of one point, if they experienced this blood
    loss.
    
    Blood loss is prevented in a few select locations (in meld, and in the
    coffin), as to allow vampires to idle without being wiped dry.
    
    Blood is gained through the use of the bite ability.  They must first
    make a bite wound, and then bite that spot again to gain a point of
    blood.  If they kill an enemy with bite, they recover 3 units of blood.
    
    Due to the fact that the vampires are heavily dependant on blood, and
    the risk of torpor could drop all their skills to novice, I have 
    applied a 2% tax reduction to the layman slot.
    
- undead:

    Vampires are undead, which for many areas of Genesis carry along
    extra penalties.  Many artifacts specifically harm undead, and there
    are large areas of the game that are inaccessible to undead.
    
    Vampires do not get to enjoy the benefits of intoxication or having
    a full stomach, as well.
    
    This is not as heavy a penalty as the blood requirement or sunlight,
    so I am taking a tax reduction of 1% to the race slot.
    
    
    
    
    