Terms
======

missing blood         Measure of a vampire's need to drink blood.
                      Thirst increases normally at a rate of one per
                      1100 seconds, but is increased when the vampire
                      moves or engages in combat.  Thirst is reduced
                      by drinking blood.

max blood             Max blood is the level of blood which the vampire
                      can store before becoming thirsty.  When this reaches 
                      zero, vampire abilities will fail, and vampire skills 
                      will fall - entering torpor.
                      A vampire's max blood is calculated with
                      the following formula:

                      vstat + 40

thirst                max blood -missing blood / max blood * 100

torpor                A vampire in torpor is paralyzed, unable to
                      use vampire abilities, and all skills are 
                      reduced by one point per point of thirst.
                      The only way to come out of torpor is
                      to reduce thirst.

sunlight              Levels of sunlight in a lit room is determined
                      by checking the "_room_i_sunlight" prop in the
                      room.  In the prop is absent, sunlight is determined
                      using the ROOM_I_LIGHT prop in outside rooms.  Indoor
                      rooms without the "_room_i_sunlight" prop are assumed
                      to have no sunlight.

sunlight damage       The base amount of damage being applied to a 
                      vampire per 5 second interval as a result of
                      sunlight exposure.  Sunlight damage is calculated 
                      using the following formula:

                      sunlight * 2 
                      
                      This has two effects:
                      
                      CON drain: The vampire's con will decrease by one
                      point every 5 seconds until (sunlight damage)% * CON
                      has been removed.  When out of the sun, the CON
                      returns at a rate of 1 point per 5 seconds.
                      
                      Direct damage:  The vampire will take (sunlight 
                      damage)/5 damage as well.
                      
                      eg:  30 levels of sunlight can reduce a vampire by
                      60% con, and does 12 HP of damage every 5 seconds.
                      

sunlight resistance   The amount of sunlight damage a vampire can ignore.
                      This value is subtracted from the sunlight damage
                      to find the con drain and direct damage actually
                      given by sunlight.  Sunlight resistance is calculated
                      using the following formula:

                      vstat /10 

                      where vstat is the vampire's vamp stat.
                      
                      Also, a vampire carrying darkness can ignore a 
                      portion of the sunlight.  The formula for this is:
                      
                      (local darkness level)/(room light level) *
                      (sunlight damage)

sunlight modifier     A value representing negative effects of
                      sunlight in general.  This is generally applied
                      as a negative modifier on various vampire ability
                      tests when he/she is exposed to sunlight.  Sunlight
                      modifier is calculated using the following formula:

                      (sunlight damage)

effective vamp stat   This value is used for most ability tests.  It
                      is calculated using the following formula:

                      bvstat - sunmod - thirst

                      where bvstat is the guild stat, sunmod is the 
                      current sunlight modifier, and thirst is the 
                      vampire's thirst modifier.

power check           When a vampire tries to use a vampire ability,
                      the resolve_task on the ability is modified by the
                      power level.  The power level is in essence the
                      minimum vamp stat required to use the ability.  When
                      the vampire does not have the requirement, they will 
                      fail to start the ability.  The resolve_task for the 
                      spell is reduced by 1 point per point of missing vamp 
                      stat, translating into roughly 5 points of 
                      effectiveness reduction per point of missing stat.

power level           The level of the power check required to use a vampire
                      ability successfully.

