1 Basic attributes

     The guild is magic-user, good-aligned, and occupational only.

2 Purpose of the Guild

     Members are dedicated to eradicating the evil that befell Calia and led to
the Dim Time and all the horrors that followed.  Since many of these evils were
imported from other lands, it is natural for Guild members to travel abroad and
deal with them at their source; thus there is a roleplaying motivation for
adventures both in Calia and in other domains.  Further details about
motivations will depend on how you design the Guild.

     I see this guild as one that would attract long-time warriors who were
looking for some new purpose in their lives.  It's possible that the stat
requirements would restrict it to champions only, and I do not expect it to
have a great many members.  Since their combat skills are small, and the Guild
is also associated with Caliana, I would expect them to be allies of the Calian
Warriors.  To this end, I anticipate some serious quests in the domain that
would require the cooperation of a magic-user and a warrior; these quests will
be available to combinations such as Angmar & Morgul as well.

3 Fitting this guild into the history of Calia

     These magic-users are a forward-looking group, not an organization of
people recovering from oppression.  Their personality is completely distinct
from that of the Calian Warriors, whose history is largely defined by their
conflicts with warlords.

     I see this guild as having evolved rather recently.  This evolution can be
either the result of recent founding or of recent coming out of hiding.  The
powers that generate the magic, the Ethereals, have existed for a long time,
and indeed these magic-users may also have existed for a long time.  However,
mortals with the ability to control Ethereal magic are rare, and their
organization into a guild was possible only after the defeat of Kroug, whose
minions (and those of other evil warlords) would attack them on sight.

     The key entry of this guild into the history will come in volume 10, Mount
Kyrus.  I'll rewrite the bulk of this text to fit the guild along the following
lines:

     The palace is visited several time by a [insert magic-user description
     here] who confers with Caliana.  Eventually, she follows the magic-user to
     the moors [where he reveals some secret to her].  Caliana disappears, and
     when she returns, she 'glows with an inner light', 'burns with a newfound
     purpose', or something else appropriate to the guild's nature.  She
     reveals a new determination and direction, making preparations and issuing
     orders which are not fully understood but are always obeyed.  When all is
     ready, she assembles the warriors, makes the fateful address in volume 11,
     and marches them up Mount Kyrus.

     In volume 10, the magic-user is not necessarily identified as part of a
guild; it's up to you whether you want the Guild to be fully formed at this
time or only in the process of development.  Other things he can do in the
course of his appearance in this book are use powers that you plan for the
Guild or tell some history of its members.  Also, if you like, you can have
more than one magic-user appear in this book.  Volume 10 is the key place where
the Guild is dovetailed into the Chronicles, but there are other places I can
mention it; these are noted later.

4 Caliana and the Guild

     Caliana has two adult lives, one as a warrior and the other as a
sorceress.  She is completely warrior until her encounter with the magic-user
in volume 10, and then begins her transitional period.  I figure that at the
time of the Great Battle she is 50/50 warrior/sorceress, and shortly after the
battle rapidly migrates toward sorcery only.  Her departure from the Warriors
Guild is her final break with her warrior life.

     We can discuss at length Caliana's association with the magic-users
Guild.  I've made a suggestion about it in one of the possible story-lines
below, but I'm open to any number of other possibilities.  But my feeling is
that any quest or adventure that involves meeting Caliana will involve magic,
and this magic will somehow be related to your Guild.  Probably the way this
will work is that the player would use Ethereal magic or would first make
contact with a Guild npc.  But we can work out those details later.

5 Ethereal magic

     In a metaphysical sense, ethereals are catalysts, agents of
transformation, lubricants.  They provide the means by which objects can grow,
develop, deteriorate, or otherwise change faster and easier than would be
otherwize possible.  The changes they effect are changes which could occur
naturally, given enough time and effort.  Thus, you can't use them to turn a
mouse into a dragon, but you might cause a stone wall to crumble or instantly
change a fencing student into a master swordsman.

     Ethereals are NOT ALIVE!  They have no will of their own and thus are
subject to being guided by the will of whoever uses them.  They are, however,
quite powerful and fast-acting, so anyone who uses them without sufficient
concentration or preparation will experience unexpected and unpredictable
results.  Also, their powers generally have a permanent effect on inanimate
targets, which are inert and have no force within them to dispel the ethereal
magic, but living things tend to revert back to their original state.

     In the document "ee.txt" the Creator attempted to remedy the hardships
that had befallen Calia by application of ethereals.  However, a vast quantity
of them were accidentally spilled into the land.  The ethereals were "assorted"
in the sense that some are heavy, tending to congregate in the bottom of a
valley, pond, or other quiet place, and some are light, tending to rise in the
vapors emitted from volcanoes, geysers, and the like.  There are a number of
intermediate weights (rather like motor oils), and each will naturally find its
own best collecting spots and will be best for certain types of spells.

     A Guild member may infuse himself with pure Ethereal magic, perhaps by
bathing in a magic pool or breathing vapors from a fissure.  The player would
then be "charged" with magic (mana level would still regulate his ability to
control/cast spells) and could perform magic as long as enough energy remained
for the desired spell.  The charge could either be permanent (until used) or
could slowly drain away, like a battery that slowly loses its power while
sitting on the shelf.

     If the different types of ethereals are good only for certain spells, and
thus you can't have all of the possible spells available to a single player at
any one time, and if we factor the charge/discharge process into the tax
equation, we'll probably be able to offer higher peak performance for the same
amount of tax than we could if the players' magic ability remained constant.
After all, the Ethereal story is unique to Calia, so Guild members won't be
able to recharge in foreign domains.  That should count for some tax reduction!

     One last thing about the ethereals:  while they tend to transform things
in ways that they could naturally transform, given enough time or effort, this
does not entirely preclude other transformations.  In particular, if another
form of magic "opens a window" to another state of being, ethereals can be used
to push the target through the opening.

     For example, one of the Elementals may have made a few frogs from clay (or
gak) and left the mold behind (or perhaps it was the original mold from the
Creator's kitchen with which she made the poisonous frogs to deter Fatty).  It
then sank into the soft ground, filled with rainwater, and collected a few
ethereals as well.  The result - the frog pond quest.  This concept may lead to
interesting possibilities of members of two mage guilds casting complimentary
spells to achieve a single purpose.

6 Possible story lines behind the guild:

6.1 Servants of the Creator

    6.1.1 Basic concept

         The Creator chooses special mortals to serve Her purposes in Calia.
    Specifically, they are allowed to become part of Her plan to restore the
    natural order She had in mind for this domain.  Service is completely
    voluntary; the opportunity is made available to the worthy, but there is no
    harm in choosing another path.

         The Creator does not reveal Herself to these mortals.  Instead, She
    guides them unseen along the path She has made for Her servants.
    Revelations may take the shape of fairies, spectres, visions, etc., and in
    various circumstances may be visible only to the chosen one or to others in
    his/her company.  If this is the form the Guild takes, we'll need to devise
    a distinct mythology to explain its existence to mortals, something along
    the lines of the stories of the Elementals told at the Worshippers guild
    which are quite different from their real natures.

    6.1.2 Short history

         Caliana was among the first of the mortals to be chosen.  Whether she
    was the very first, we do not know.  Those who follow this path are
    secretive and reveal little of their activities to outsiders.  It is
    suspected that Gamalus is one of them.  Members eschew weapons and instead
    use powers granted them by the Creator when force is required.

    6.1.3 Admission

         Only those who have demonstrated valor and virtue are chosen.  A
    vision or revelation suggests a task, and the stouthearted soul who
    completes the task will become aware of the opportunity at hand.  Entry
    into the Guild is accomplished by the Transformation, which in reality is
    the passage of the applicant through the Spectral Sphere (the jar as
    mentioned in ee.txt).

    6.1.4 Links to the Chronicles

         There is no direct mention of this Guild in the Chronicles.  However,
    at part 10.2 there is an unexplained event involving Caliana which is in
    actualty her Transformation.  After that time, her combat skills begin to
    wane as her powers of spellcasting increase.  The final document she leaves
    with the Guild gives an enigmatic reference to duties to which she must
    attend, but only member of this Guild will actually understand the text.

6.2 Natural sorcerers

    6.2.1 Basic concept

         Potential members of the Guild are those residents of Calia who have a
    natural sensitivity to the Ethereal magic that permeates the land.  This
    sensitivity is revealed in their ability to perceive otherworldly
    influences in natural occurrences.  For example, they may see fairies
    painting colors on the flowers, while more mundane viewers see only the
    colors themselves.  By joining this guild, they learn the range of
    abilities which their sensitivity predisposes them towards and may train
    skills to use them effectively.

         Their power is derived from concentrated infusions of Ethereal
    energy.  This energy collects in low areas of the domain (as described in
    ee.txt) and may be harvested, stored, and used up, much like energy from
    food.

    6.2.2 Short history

         To outsiders, this guild looks like a cult, and in fact there is a
    related cult to which unsuspecting 'unworthies' may be inducted as a means
    of distracting them from any interest in the Guild.  Those who join this
    trivial cult quickly tire of it and move on to other pursuits, leaving the
    Guild undisturbed.

         Guild members do not adorn themselves with fancy titles; instead, one
    may call himself 'the dweller in the birch forest,' and another may call
    herself 'she who frolics in the sunlight.'  These simple descriptions belie
    the great power that they wield when they are energized by the Ethereals.

    6.2.3 Admission

         All who approach are lured into joining the cult described above.
    When someone tires of this cult and leaves, he will receive a vision if he
    is deemed worthy.  This vision will lead him to the obelisks, which open a
    gateway to a secret place where he may learn of the Guild's true nature.

    6.2.4 Links to the Chronicles

         A cult as described above will be added to the cult section
    (Chronicles 4.6.5).  This cult will be described incorrectly, as the text
    will portray an intriguing outsider's view of the actual Guild, while the
    related cult will be trivial.  Smart players who read the text may figure
    this out when they join and leave this cult, suspecting that something is
    more than it seems.  Details of the cult's description will be settled
    later after the Guild is further along in the design stage.

         The obelisks are mentioned in 10.2.  No other reference to the Guild
    is made in the "mortal" text of the Chronicles, but the wizard subtext will
    contain a complete description.

7 Guild features

7.1 Admission restrictions

    7.1.1 Stats & alignment

         Only those who have proved their worth may join.  I don't have any
    idea what level you wanted to restrict it to, but if we want to use Caliana
    as a model for the qualifications, then it can't really be available to
    newbies.  You might also want to admit only those who have put a certain
    percentage of their total stats into the mental side, as opposed to those
    who have high overall stats.

         The Creator wanted to dispel the evil in Calia by applying ethereals;
    She intended their use to be for good only.  Good-alignment is CRITICAL to
    Guild members.  The effectiveness of their spells is proportional to their
    proximity to pure holiness.

    7.1.2 Race

         I suggest race restrictions simply because there's a tendency for
    humans to have all the opportunities in Genesis and other races to have
    fewer.  Also, we already have one wide-open occupational guild, and in the
    Chronicles I am making something of a point about how remarkable this is.
    Perhaps only the more dextrous races are suited to this magic-user guild:
    elf, hobbit, and gnome?

7.2 Spells

    7.2.1 Animate

         This spell brings an inanimate object to life.  The exact nature of
    the animated object is based on its original attirbutes.  For example, if
    you animate a sword, it can go attack something.  A bucket won't attack
    anything, but it might fetch something for you.  Once animated, an object
    can be commanded with text like:

         >command sword kill gnome

         >command bucket east, get coins, west

         The animated object sprouts legs (and perhaps arms) so that it is
    mobie.  In coding terms, the original object is removed from the game and a
    generic guild object replaces it.  The short and long descriptions and
    other properties are queried from the original.  Text along the lines of
    "It has been magically animated and has sprouted arms and legs" is added to
    the long description.  A splendid sword would become an "animated splendid
    sword."

         The stats on an animated object would be pretty low, and since only
    large players would be in the guild (and therefore only interested in large
    opponents), using the object as a tanker if hardly a consideration.
    However, it might be used to distract an opponent, particularly if it's one
    that chases an opponent that runs away.  The object is stupid as well as
    weak - it won't run away of its own volition.  The player will have to type
    "command sword kill guard, east" in the hopes that the sword will have time
    to execute the second step of the command before it got killed.

         If the object is killed, it disintegrates.  If the player who created
    it runs out of mana, is killed, or leaves the vicinity of the object, it
    will wander around randomly and probably make a complete pest of itself.

         Possible variations:

         Create a distinct set of acceptable commands for different object
         types (weapon, armour, container, food).

         Make the player pay a penalty in health or mana if his object is
         killed.

         Allow a Guild member to give an animated object to another player, who
         then may command it as long as his mana holds out.

    7.2.2 Bog

         This spell turns the ground around another players' or players' feet
    into quicksand-like bog (I think this concept is consistent with the latter
    stages of doughnut decay).  It won't kill anyone, but the target can't
    leave the room until the bog disappears.  Anyone who steps into the room
    while the bog is in place is subject to being trapped; avoiding it is
    dependent upon skills like awareness and acrobat as well as stats.

         Possible variations:

         Allow an 'escape' function from the bog dependent on stats.

         Let the bog 'swallow' some of the target's inventory.

    7.2.3 Infirmity

         This spell is used against a player/npc.  Since ethereal magic is
    intended for use only against evil, the player will suffer a slight
    alignment change himself if he uses it on a good or neutral character.  The
    effect is to age the target rapidly, leading to the usual afflictions of
    the elderly - wrinkles, rigid joints, loss of strength and vitality.  The
    target's physical stats drop severely and suddenly, then will rebuild
    slowly.  The spell is incapable of killing on its own.

         Possible variations:

         Make the target drop excess weight when his strength diminishes.

         Add a random trip-and-fall function when the target is walking while
         carrying excess weight (to split up a team or hinder pursuit).

    7.2.4 Self-transformation

         In general, members do not wield weapons.  The Guild supplies no
    weapon training, just a modest amount of defense and unarmed combat skill
    to get you out of a jam.  However, there may come a time when one must
    stand and fight.

         This spell is invoked by wielding a weapon.  It is ALWAYS invoked when
    you wield a weapon, so Guild members cannot pick up some weapon skill in a
    lay or adventurer guild and use it at the amateur/journeyman level.  If the
    spell is successful, the player is transformed into a high-level user of
    the weapon being wielded.  The player must already have some student-level
    training in the weapon or he will not be "predisposed" to mastering it.

         If the conditions are right, the player can acquire temporary use of
    levels as high as superior guru in the weapon skill and parry.  The skills
    remain constant while the player's mana and ethereal charge are sufficient
    to support it, but these will be drained as long as the weapon is wielded.

7.3 Names

     Here are some possible names inspired by the story lines above.  I've
taken particular care to avoid "holy" sounding names, as I don't want the Guild
to be mistaken for clerical.

The Celestials       Members do not really understand where they have been when
The Astrals          they visit the Spectral Sphere.  To them, it seems they
                     have walked in the sky.

The Transformed      These are all references to the transformation that takes
The Transmuted       place in the Spectral Sphere.
The Transfigured

The Sensitives       These refer to the particular affinity members have for
The Perceptives      Ethereal magic.

7.4 Miscellaneous and uncoordinated thoughts

     If you look in quest_ideas.txt in the chronicles directory, you'll see the
beginnings of a quest to breach the palace wall.  This is done by magic, and I
expect the repair will also require magic.  The Chronicles describe the
breaching of the wall during the Great Battle in 13.26, and 13.37.3 mentions
the repair process briefly.  This magic-user guild may be the custodians of the
process by which the palace wall is repaired.  They may also have ways of
creating other items from crystal, although I don't want to make this a central
part of the magic as it all could get to sound like New Age babbling.

     We had a "vortex" in the domain a long time ago, back when we still had a
land link to Sparkle.  As a wee mortal I found it rather interesting, although
I was never able to do anything with it.  If we want to make the obelisks the
controls for a passageway to the Spectral Sphere, it might be something to
revive.  When you have completed the entrance quest, they open a "drain" that
appears as the vortex (like water emptying from a bathtub) and sucks the player
into another reality.

     The Chronicles mention some magic eggs in 9.13 - 9.15.  These eggs are
infused with Ethereal magic, and since they've been lying around for a long
time, they carry heavy-duty "charges."  I would expect these eggs to be rare
and difficult to get (dangerous too), but once a Guild member got one, it would
allow the casting of a truly awesome spell.  It worked for Kroug!
