                                 1 Gourmet Club

     The restaurant on the ground floor is open to everyone.  Only members and
their guests (teammates count as guests, or one may issue invitations purchased
from Shimram and Mezzlebeb) may use the banquet and ballrooms upstairs.  In the
restaurant there are six menus available, one for each race.  Each menu is
further divided into salads, soups, entrees, desserts, and probably a couple of
other distinctive Calian categories.  The insufferable waiter will only give
you the menu appropriate to your race.  If you're a dwarf and you really want
to order something from the elf menu, you'll have to bring an elf friend with
you and swap menus after the waiter hands them to you.  Or you could ask an elf
to take a menu from the restaurant (the waiter is much too busy to keep track
of all the menus) and leave it where you can find it.

     Of course, if you know the elf menu by heart, you can order any item you
know is on it, but that can be tricky - the specials change daily!  There are
six master chefs in the employ of the club, but only two are on duty at any
given time.  Each chef has distinct specialities; thus the varying menus.

1.1 Tip Quest

     This is a really tiny quest with minimal xp.  You simply "tip waiter"
after a meal and you feel a bit more experienced.  However, the club wants to
encourage frequent tipping, so I'd like to have certain other quests reset the
Tip Quest bit back to zero.  Thus, after joining the club, if the player tips
the waiter again he'll get another tidbit of xp.  I'm not aware of any other
quest in the game that resets this way, and I have no idea if Admin would allow
it, but I think it would be a fun variation and a way to ensure that the
insufferable waiter makes a decent living.

1.2 Gourmet Club Membership Quest

     No hints, no help.  If you're going to be a real Gourmet, you'll have to
prove you're worthy.  You do that by acting like one.  If you visit the
restaurant and sufficiently impress the waiter with your conoisseurship, you
will be invited to join.

     To be a true Gourmet is to devote one's dining experiences to the highest
quality and greatest variety.  Technically, you must eat the best item in each
category (soup, entree, etc.) and drink the ideal wine for this combination of
foods.  The combination of "best" foods will always be drawn from more than one
menu (elf, dwarf, etc.).  When the insufferable waiter notices that you order
only the finest foods with the perfect wine to accompany them, he will send you
an invitation to join the club AFTER you leave the restaurant.  However, you
lose his respect completely if you do any of the following during your visit:

     Order or eat any second-class food.
     Drink anything but the ideal accompanying wine.
     Fail to eat anything you have ordered (gorging).
     Vomit, burp, or hiccup (watch out if you have swallowed a gem!).
     Ask to join.
     Fail to tip the insufferable waiter.

     To find out which master chefs are on duty, you'll have to find your way
to the kitchen door, where a plaque will tell you the chefs of the day.  You're
not welcome in the kitchen, so you'll have to find some other employees in
other rooms to ask about the chefs.  They'll tell you the chefs' specialities,
such as "anything he cooks with onions is fabulous," or "she's famous for her
cream sauces."  If those are the two specialities of the chefs of the day, then
you can expect to find one item in each category that either features onions or
cream sauce in the description; however, you may have to search all six menus
to find them.

     Among the employees is the wine steward, who you'll find in the wine
cellar (I might as well make ONE thing obvious in the quest!).  In the example
above, if you were to mention both onions and cream sauce to him, he would say
something like, "Hmmm.... an interesting problem from a wine perspective.  The
only suitable vintage would be the Lantia White."  Now you know the roster of
foods and wine that are required for the quest.

     The foods will be neither especially big nor expensive, although big
enough that anyone smaller than a wanderer probably won't be able to finish
them.  If you eat all of the required foods and drink the appropriate wine, and
you don't do anything on the prohibited list above, you'll get a message some
time after you leave the restaurant inviting you to join.  When you go to the
club office, you can sign up and receive your bib of membership (Maniac - be
sure there's a location for a bib that doesn't interfere with the medallion!).

     The insufferable waiter will be of little help in this process.  Not only
will he make it difficult for you to get menus for races other than you own
(better just take 5 friends with you), but he will recommend dishes and
beverages that will wreck the quest.  The chefs won't be very helpful either -
as soon as someone joins, the kitchen shift will change, and new chefs with new
menus will go on duty.  With any luck, this will be a particularly hard quest
for anyone to pass along a run-through to his friends, and there's even a
chance that someone will be invited to join without ever realizing what he did
to earn the honor.

1.3 Vomit Quest

     I hear you asking, "does Calia really need a Vomit Quest?"  Alas, the
answer is yes.  On the menu for each race is a single food that only members of
that race can stomach.  For example, on the goblin menu you may see an
appetizer of:

     Chewy chicken chunks - chunks of fresh chicken quickly seared and served
     with their own natural deep-red juices.

     Heaving yet?  Well, if anyone but a goblin tries to eat this, he feels a
strange sensation.  A few seconds later, his stomach is making really strange
noises, and 30 seconds after eating this dish he emits a stupendous plume of
vomit.  Of course the insufferable waiter is obliged to clean up the mess, so
no invitation for this player, and even a tip won't earn you any xp today!

     However, if the player leaves the room and vomits outside, he gets a
little xp for showing such good sense.  He still won't be invited to join the
club though.  Completing this quest also resets the Tip Quest bit.

1.4 Cheapmeat's Pickle Quest

     The Gourmet Club will have various suppliers throughout the domain, and
probably a few in other domains eventually.  One of them is Cheapmeat, who
specializes in ham.  Cheapmeat loves ham and pickle sandwiches and will ask
players to bring him a nice big pickle, the biggest one they can get.

     Pickles are cured on the north side of the Gourmet Club.  Saurkraut,
smoked fish, and various other pungent foods are cured there as well.  There's
a guard, but he's not much of a threat.  If you ask him what he's doing there,
he'll tell you he's there to keep people from stealing the pickles.  But if you
ask him nicely, he'll say, "Oh, if you ask, then I guess you're not stealing,"
and he'll let you take a pickle out of the barrel.

     The biggest pickles are on the bottom, out of reach of any player's bare
hand.  But you can get some tongs in the kitchen.  The size of the pickle
depends on how you go after it:

     1. take pickle from barrel:  random pickle, small to large.
     2. take pickle from bottom of barrel:  random pickle, large to very large.
     3. take pickle from barrel with tongs:  random pickle, medium to huge.
     4. take pickle from bottom of barrel with tongs:  first try - huge,
     second try - enormous, third try - the Mother of All Pickles.

     If you get the enormous pickle, its description will tell you that you've
never seen such a large pickle.  If you get the Mother of All Pickles, you will
feel confident that there can't possibly be a larger pickle in the barrel.  The
reward you get when you give the pickle to Cheapmeat depends upon these
factors:

     1. Did you ask for the pickle (+) or kill the guard to get it (-)?
     2. How big is your pickle?
     3. Were you wearing metal armour on your arms (-) when you reached into
     the barrel?  If you were, then your arm armour will quickly rust from the
     brine.

1.5 The Sausage Quest

     I'll leave the details up to your imagniation.  This one can get as
grotesque as you want.  The idea is to help Bollonio, a supplier to the Club,
make his special frog-garlic sausage.  If you don't know how sausages are made
in real life, well, you may just want to remain ignorant.

                           2 The Intellectual League

2.1 The Eastern Wing

    2.1.1 The barking dog

         The Zem master asvises you, "when you hear the yellow dog bark twice
    at you, you will feel more experienced."

         The yellow dog wanders around Gelan.  He's a friendly fellow and runs
    away if attacked.  His sole purpose in life is to enlighten people on this
    quest.  If a player asks the dog to "speak," he will bark once.  The player
    receives a marker so that the dog will not bark at him again until
    reboot/relogin.

         The key to solving the quest lies in the Administrative Center.  The
    Department of Redundancy Department has an echo chamber.  Any sound in the
    echo chamber is echoed, as you might expect.  On your screen you'll see
    such things as:

    Uhclem lets go of a real rip-roarer.
    Uhclem lets go of a real rip-roarer.
    Uhclem peers at you quizzically.          /* Not a sound, not repeated. */
    Uhclem asks you:  did you hear that?
    Uhclem asks you:  did you hear that?

         If you can lead the yellow dog into the chamber and then ask him to
    "speak," you will hear him bark twice and get your xp.  To lead him in, buy
    a bag of meat chunks ("walking meat") from the Gourmet Club and drop them
    one at a time as you walk from wherever the dog is to the echo chamber.
    He'll follow you in and give you about 1 minute to ask him to speak before
    he gets distracted and goes off to play somewhere else.

    2.1.2 The Ow

         You are in a tidy, uncluttered chamber.  The walls are decorated in a
    subtle pattern conducive to contemplation.  In the middle of the floor is a
    single mat on which a Zem master sits cross-legged.  There are two obvious
    exits:  east, west.
    A Zem master.

         > ask master task

         The Zem master says:  The task is where you find it.  It lies within
    the Ow.  [The master can spout all sorts of inscrutable nonsense.  Since
    the quest occurs just one room away, he really doesn't have to tell you
    anything.  But to give people a clue to the solution to the quest, he can
    occasionally say "Do not be one with the object of your desire, but rather
    be its object of desire."  Stuff like that.]

         > ask master where

         The Zem master points east.

         > east

         You are in a small room of exquisite Zem sparseness.  The walls are
    decorated in a subtle pattern conducive to contemplation.  Against the back
    wall is a Zem object, wholly enveloped in its Ow.  On the floor are two
    mats.  There is one obvious exit: west.
    Two Zem students.

         > exa student

         He is a student of Zem.  He sits on the mat and contemplates the
    perfection of the relationship between the object and the room.

         > exa object

         This Zem object is complete in and of itself, and it conforms to the
    needs of the room just as the room conforms to its needs.  Yet despite its
    completeness, you feel that it represents a task for you to accomplish.

         > exa ow

         Your attempt is well-meaning, but the Ow is unfathomable.

         > take object

         To take the object would be to disturb the Zem perfection of the
    room.  You decide to leave it where it is.

         > search object

         You find perfection, but it eludes your grasp.  [I figure we can code
    an annoying Zem response to just about every action a player can perform on
    the object.]

         > exa mat

         It's a small mat for sitting.  It has room for only one person at a
    time, and it is currently occupied.

         > kill student

         [These guys won't be really ferocious fighters, so you can kill him,
    but you'll make a mess of the mat in the process so you can't use it.
    Assuming that you decide not to kill the student, the process might
    continue as follows:]

         > ask student mat

         The student says: You would like to sit on the mat?

         > nod

         Unable to leave the Zem perfection of the room yet wanting to fulfill
    your desire, the student draws a knife and plunges it into his own chest.
    He rolls over and dies, leaving a vacant mat where you may sit.

         > sit on mat

         You sit on the mat.  The corpse of the Zem student is absorbed into
    the Ow.

         > contemplate object

         [This could be the completion of the quest with an appropriate message
    of enlightenment and, of course, experience.  But I think it would be fun
    to carry it further a bit...]

         The object mesmerizes you with its aura of the Ow which fills the
    room.  This object was obviously destined for this room since the beginning
    of Genesis.  It is of the room, both part of the room and separate from it
    at the same time.  You wish you had the same relationship with this
    mystical object as the room.

         > be the room
    -or-
         > be room
    -or-
         > become room
    -or-
         > be one with the room
    etc.

         The object is of you, both a part of you and separate from you, as you
    are now the object of its desire.  You release the Ow and achieve Zem!
    You feel more experienced.

    [This may be stretching it a bit, especially for players for whom English
    is a second language.  But I thought I'd let you see my "extreme" version.
    If we used it, I think we'd need to allow a lot of leeway in the wording of
    the last command.  By the way, anyone else in the room should see "<Player>
    goes owwwww...."]

                     3 The Quest of the Seven Sacred Meats

     This quest is given by members of the Meat Cult.  This cult is actually
led by a few of the more intelligent krougs, who remain hidden most of the
time.  They have stumbled upon some old documents in Kroug's library describing
the Ritual of the Seven Sacred Meats, a ritual with such restorative power that
it may even be able to revivie Kroug himself.  Fear and a lack of understanding
prevent the krougians from trying this very dangerous ritual themselves, so
they try to entice travellers to perform it.  Should the traveller succeed, the
krougians hope to learn all the details and then assist Kroug in attempting it.

     ["Meat Cult Meets at Noon" is a sign posted on the wall in a Firesign
Theatre radio play, Don't Crush That Dwarf, Hand Me the Pliers.  There is never
any reference to the sign or the cult in the action or dialog; it is merely an
indicator of the surreal nature of Firesign radio productions that you can
"hear" signs on the wall.]

     I envision this quest as being very complicated and offering a variety of
ways to get killed.  The mortal will have to arrange for a Master Chef (can be
hired at the Gourmet Club) to do the cooking and range over the length and
breadth of Calia to procure the ingredients.  We may even want to require a few
foreign spices in the recipe.

     Once the ingredients are all delivered to the chef, he prepares a
seven-course meat feast which the mortal must eat.  The meats are different for
each mortal - he can find out which are best for him by trying a variety of
foods at the Gourmet Club.  Those which disagree with him in their 'normal'
form in the restaurant will certainly kill him in their 'magic' form.  However,
even if the mortal chooses the optimum seven meats, the resulting feast is
still poisonous.  Dishes that may be part of the feast include the black meat
of the giant aquatic centipede [inspired by William Burroughs' novel Naked
Lunch], frog-garlic sausage, and bug tongue soup.  Further suggestions are
always welcome!

     The Surgeons Guild can prescribe herbs and elixirs that will counteract
the effect of the magic feast.  Again, the remedies are different for each
mortal.  On top of all that, the meats and remedies must be consumed in the
proper order!  Some wise npc's at the Intellectual League can offer advice on
this.

     Once the mortal begins the feast, which takes some time, there is a
disturbance which is felt back at Meat Cult headquarters.  The members want to
know how the quest is performed, so they seek out the feasting mortal and try
to observe him.  Alas, they also try to help, and their assistance is likely to
be fatal.  Therefore, the mortal performing the quest will need the help of
some friends to thwart the efforts of these 'helpers.'  They're not a big
threat as far as combat is concerned, but they're persistent, so the friends
may have to dispose of quite a few of them before the quest is complete.

     Really smart mortals will discover the BIG secret of this quest:  there
are eight sacred meats!  However, there is no special remedy for the eighth
meat.  It delivers a standard heavyweight poison, and the mortal may need the
help of alcohol, herbs, and standard healing spells to survive it.  Just for
fun, the eighth meat causes convulsions and spasmodic behavior, so the mortal
may find himself running around and babbling incoherently while the poison is
in his system.  There's nothing dangerous about these actions except that it
may cause the mortal to run away just when a friend is trying to cast a healing
spell on him.

     Assuming that the mortal completes the quest, he gets a final choice:  to
report to the Meat Cult what has transpired (and thus help Kroug), to lie to
the Meat Cult (and thus thwart Kroug), or to remain silent.  If he reports, he
gets xp + alignment change toward evil.  If he lies, he gets xp + alignment
change toward good.  If he does neither, he simply gets the appropriate xp.

                                   4 Sponges

     Sponge divers work along the coast south of Gelan.  There they dive for
sponges, dry them, and sell them.  Players can dive for their own sponges if
they want; all it takes is some swimming skill, a little awareness, and a good
knife to cut the sponge's hold on the rock it occupies.

4.1 The Sponge Quest

     A sponge collector lives in a modest house in which he displays his
impressive shelves of sponges.  There's the jagged black sponge, the large
serrated sponge, the splendid sponge, the gold broadsponge... well, you get the
idea.  There are 25 varieties of sponge available, each of which has a
description inspired by a popular weapon.  Alas, the collector only has 24 of
them!

     The task is to bring the collector a sponge of a type he does not already
own.  All the player has to do is note the 24 types on the shelves and then
bring one that doesn't match any of them.  He can buy a sponge, but he gets
extra points for diving for it himself, and extra points again if he takes the
time to dry the sponge before presenting it to the collector.  When the
collector accepts the sponge, he awards xp to the player, then places the
sponge on the shelf.  In the process of displaying the new sponge, the
collector will accidentally step on, drop into a hole in the floor, or
otherwise destroy or lose one of the others, thus reducing his collection to 24
again.  It will not be immediately obvious which sponge was lost - players will
have to examine the shelves again to get an inventory.

4.2 The Bath Quest

     Install a bath house in Gelan near the lavatory.  This bath house will
have tubs, each of which may accommodate two players at most.  The process of
taking a bath is simple and provides only a tiny bit of xp.  You need to get a
sponge and some soap; soap will be available at a Gelan store.  Pay the
attendant to fill the tub with water, get into the tub, and then you can bathe
yourself or your partner.  The fun part is in the mock-combat emotes produced
by the sponge & soap if you wash someone else:

     > Uhclem washes you!
     > You aim for Uhclem's head with your splendid sponge but miss, slinging
     soapsuds all over the room.  [others see you slinging soapsuds, and the
     attendant probably makes some comment about having to clean up.]
     > Uhclem lightly lathers your left arm with his jagged black sponge.
     > You brutally scrub Uhclem's back with your splendid sponge.

     [etc., etc., etc.
     Depending upon stats and skills, one player is eventually cleaned.]

     > Uhclem completely washes you from head to toe!
       You drop your splendid sponge.
       You have a strange feeling.
       You are clean!

     It may be possible to include some guild-based emotes, such as "<Calian>
sneaks around your defenses and powerfully scrubs your head with his jagged
black sponge," or "<Gladiator> lathers himself into a wild bathing rage," but
these will take some coordination with the other domains.  I only envision at
most two people at a time in a tub; if they want to wash in teams, they can go
to the seashore or to the fountain in Gelan with their soap and sponges,
although we should probably think of some fun "penalty" for doing this in a
no-bathing area.

4.3 The Sponge Thief Quest

     The collector described above has a friend who shares this hobby, but
someone has been stealing the friend's sponges!  The assignment is to identify
the culprit, and the player who accepts the assignment is given a key to the
friend's house.

     The friend's house is easy to find, and he is never at home.  A player
inspecting the house will find a locked room which the front-door key will
open.  In this room is the sponge collection.  There will be any number of
interesting items to examine, but few real clues.  Only a tiny window
illuminates the room, and there are no hidden entrances.  In the area
surrounding the house will be many npc's, and if questioned they will offer
answers that sound suspicious but are merely red herrings.

     A player can solve the conundrum by hiding in the room (there's plenty of
stuff to hide behind).  If a player hides in the room for 1 minute, a tiny frog
will enter through the window, grab a sponge, and exit - the player will have
no opportunity to stop him.  By then exiting the house and going around the
back to thw window he can begin tracking the frog back to its lair (only a
player who has seen the frog can track it - anyone simply doing general
"tracking" outside the house would not be looking for such tiny footprints).

     Options at this point:

     1. If the player goes back to the collector to 'identify frog,' the
     collector will laugh and demand proof.
     2. If the player should mistakenly identify anyone else, he will receive
     less xp if he completes the quest during this session, not to mention some
     abuse from the collector, who will always know of an alibi for the
     accused.
     3. If the player should, for any reason, take a sponge from the friend's
     house, he will instantly be branded a sponge thief by the locals and be
     forbidden to do any more quests in the area until next reboot.

     The player must track the frog to his lair and then search for him.  The
frog will be holding the stolen sponge in his mouth.  When he is found, the
frog may be killed or taken.  If the player kills the frog, the sponge may be
collected.  However, if the player takes the frog, a firm squeeze will make the
sponge "pop" out of its mouth.  The collector requires the presentation of both
frog and sponge to call the quest complete.

     Completion options:

     1. Present frog corpse and sponge to collector.  He remarks that the death
     penalty was a bit severe for the theft of a sponge, but that the player
     was only doing what he thought was necessary.  Standard xp awarded.
     2. Present live frog holding the sponge in his mouth.  This is smoking-gun
     proof, but the collector will insist that you separate sponge from frog.
     You now have the choice of killing or squeezing the frog as above.  If you
     squeeze the frog to release the sponge in the collector's presence, you
     get bonus xp.
     3. Present the live frog and the sponge separately.  If you squeeze the
     frog before you get back to the collector, you ruin the evidence.  He will
     not believe the frog stole the sponge - the quest is busted.
     4. Big bonus - when you find the frog, search the same area again for
     sponges.  You'll find a few.  Bring them with you and present them along
     with the frog as in option 2 to get even larger xp.

                         5 The Invade-the-Palace Quest

     This quest is still in the early planning stages and involves getting into
the palace by using magic fire to melt a hole in the wall.  It's an idea I've
been bouncing around with Glykron and Maniac, and there are still some basic
facets of how and why one would do this that remain to be settled.  The basics
of the break-in process are described in the Chronicles in Annals of the Guild
II.  In general, the process is evil, so this is an adventure strictly for
enemies of Calia.  The steps in breaching the wall are:

     Acquire ingredients.  Some of them are rare and hard to get, such as a
     mineral from the Bleak Zone.  Others may require extraction from a victim,
     which would be performed in Kroug's torture chamber.

     Cast the spell to make the magic fire mixture.

     Spread the mixture liberally on the palace wall.  To spread it properly,
     you'll need a giant spatula that can be found in the Gourmet Club
     kitchen.  The spatula is hung alongside all the other utensils, but nobody
     in the Club seems to know what it's for.  The kitchen staff will usually
     prevent people from stealing utensils, but they consider this one
     worthless, perhaps suspecting it's a wallpapering tool placed here by
     mistake, so they'll probably let you have it for a fee, or won't try too
     hard to stop you if you grab it and run.

     Ignite the mixture.  This is dangerous!  The mixture immediately generates
     intense heat, and you're sure to get burned if you're standing next to it
     lighting it with a torch or candle.  The damage it does is major, and even
     to the biggest player there is a risk of death.  To make matters worse,
     the flame from a candle or torch isn't quite right for generating the
     concentrated heat against the palace wall - you'll damage it for sure, but
     not make a hole you can go through.  Instead, you need a magic wand that
     shoots tiny fireballs.  You can stand one room away and "fire east" and
     have a pretty good chance of hitting the mixture with no danger to
     yourself.  However, don't leave the wand out in the sunlight too long or
     it weakens, and then you'd have to stand up close to ignite the mixture.

     The next step has not been decided - do we want to have the infiltrator
     steal something?  Write something on the wall?  Push over the altar (maybe
     find something interesting underneath)?  Ideas are welcome.
