This is an idea of quest in ~Emerald/room/temple area.                          
That's fully my idea :) (that means i didnt get any help                        
on the moment i wrote these words :) ).                                         
                                                                                
Quest-giver is Abbot, who asking you to find his lost ring.                     
He tells you (hint!) thats very difficult and will god helps                    
you in your quest.                                                              
                                                                                
You are going to altar, praying at him, and if you had 1/3 mana                 
points, God of Doomed comes to you and gets your 1/3 mana points.               
(He havent power enough to just come :) ). He tells you that                    
this ring found thief... If you still have 1/3 mana, he'll casts                
a spell trying to find out where it is. Hmmmmm weak God! tells                  
you that he found out only that ring is linked with earth.                      
Again if you still have 1/3 of your mana he casts a spell trying                
to found out where lies thing which help you to get ring...                     
Hmmmm again only words about link of this thing with water...                   
You go to abbot and ask him about thief... he tells you there                   
was one monk-thief until he dissapeared. (Died? Or in the city                  
prison?) He was some time in monastery dungeon until his                        
end(going in prison).                                                           
You recall God's hint about water, think a bit, and EURIKA!!!                   
you remember you saw well in the yard, go to it and after                       
some messing with basket, trying to decipher syntax, you 'get water             
from well with basket'... hmm nothing in water.. trying again...                
and again... YES!!! found bag... you go to Abbot, give bag to him..             
Abbot opens bag and finds... MUCH things thief stole from monks                 
and other mortals... and one unrecognized shovel. He gives you                  
that small shovel, ?gives you some xp?, and asks again find his                 
ring.                                                                           
You wondering around, trying to use shovel, but find out that                   
it will break soon! and you have not much tries. You remember                   
something about dungeon... but there is locked door and no                      
key to it. And Abbot says he lost the key! You, tired, go to                    
bathroom in hope to wash... get a soap, trying to wash your face,               
but soap dont want just lie on your palm, it's trying to run away               
in the darkest corner of the room. You going after it, and with                 
soap find nice key. You grab it (still dirty) run to dungeon,                   
unlock door, open door, and enter cell... nothing there, except                 
bed... You pull bed, find inscription, without problems decipher                
it and know now place where ring is buried! ( the most s or nw or ne            
or se corner of tunnel under altar), go for it(notice: you                      
can use any small shovel -- big is too big for that tunnel),                    
return key, and xp is yours. Easy, isnt it? No monsters to kill,                
no poisons,no skill checks (I can add that, though).                            
                                                                                
Other ideas: make temple nice battle area -- put more monks                     
around, give them loot (see ~Emerald/starninja/h_book and                       
m_robe), also decrease number of abbots to one and                              
give him special attack -- ability to heal himself.                             
                                                                                
Ideas, suggestions and help are always welcome :).                              
                                                                                
Written by Star Ninja, 10.03.94                                                 
If you managed understood my language, you can add yourself                     
2.000.000 quest xp :) WARNING: Dont cheat!                                      
