Heya Lilith ...

After months of watching, waiting, discussing, and deliberating, the
Balance Team has finally arrived on the decision that certain changes
are now needed for the Vampire Guild to function within the global
theme and balance needs of the game.

The process which lead to this final decision involved the two active
members of the Balance Team, Petros and Cotillion, and myself. The lists
of issues that have been raised in the past were gone over with a fine
toothed comb, with our goal being to understand what we felt was the
problem with each, and then deciding what solution (if any) was
appropriate to correct the problem. In some cases, there was complete
agreement on all fronts that someting must be done. In others, there was
discussion needed, and minds were changed as a result. In a few cases,
the perceived problems were ruled by Cotillion to be not worth worrying
about, and the concern was thrown out.

My own concern in all of this is that we maintain the Vampires as:

    1. An awesome theme.
    2. A guild that is exciting and fun to play.
    3. A guild that is versatile, powerful, and terrifying.
    4. A guild that is all of the above, and remains within the bounds
       of Balance as assessed by Cotillion and his team.

I think that what has been decided will not compromise any of these
goals, and will, in fact, finally make true #4 above. As with all of
our efforts, if these actions fail to provide what is needed for the
game, we will know, and can rework things again in the future.

Below, I will list the changes that will go into effect. None of these
changes remove powers or abilities from the guild. Most of them involve
tweaking some aspect of an existing ability. The only exception to this
is one ability which was never documented as an ability, and which
reveals (prehaps unintentionally) wiz-info to the guild members, and 
must of course be removed altogether.

The Balance Team will be making these changes, themselves, immediately.
Following the sending of this mail, I will be mailing the Vampire players
an explanation that is suited to the perspective of a player and member
of the guild so that they, too, are fully in the loop on the changes and
how they are likely to feel affected by them.

Thanks for all your great work with this guild, and patience with a
process which has been marred by bad energy and mistrust. Hopefully,
this will be the final iteration of necessary balancing for this most
excellent theme. The only further changes that are forseeable will come
when we have arrived on a standard spell system, which is not likely to
affect power or tax levels.

Here follow the changes, and the rationale for each:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

 - The spell system which Novo designed for the Vampires will be brought
   fully up to date with the standards of /d/Genesis/newmagic/spell.c.
   Novo's system took many things from the ability structure he had
   been designing, and made the spells work along these lines. However,
   there were many things that were left out which need to be included
   so that the Vampire spells function along the same lines as the
   standard spells throughout the realms. The Vampire spell system will
   be augmented with the missing aspects, resulting in performance of
   Vampire casting that is consistent with the rest of the game.

 - Contrary to the documentation, it is possible (and advantageous)
   for a Vampire to make use of drained skills and drained resistances
   at the same time. The documentation states that since they cannot
   be used simultaneously, that only the higher of the two (resistance)
   will be taxed. Tax calculations will be changed to tax these two
   aspects of drain separately, which will result in either a reduction
   of aid elsewhere in their abilities, or a reduction of the power
   of these types of drain.

 - The Vampire resistance drain is currently done additively, which
   results in much more aid than the correct multiplicative
   method would provide. Resistance drain will therefore be changed
   to be done multiplicatively, which will provide the correct amount
   of aid and synch properly with other drained resistances and/or
   resistances from outside objects they may acquire.

 - Tax will be applied to the Vampires ability to target specific
   locations to their specials according to the standard ability
   system. Currently, Vampires pay no tax for this ability which 
   can give them the ability to do (quite commonly) twice as much
   damage to a heavily armoured opponent (simply by targetting the
   head, which will rarely have AC > 50.)

 - A cooldown will be applied to the Dash ability so that it cannot be
   rapid cast to guarantee escape. We want Vampires to be hard to be
   hard to catch, but not impossible. The duration of the cooldown will
   be around 10 seconds.

 - Fly will be changed so that it cannot be case while in combat. This
   is something that will be enforced globally - no combat ports.

 - A standard scry effect will be added to the ability library, which
   will then be used by the Vampire Scry spell. It will no longer be
   something that can be cast while on the move. It will also always
   alert the target who was scried. All simple scry spells in the game
   will be converted to use this central (yet customizable) code.

 - An undocumented feature exists which sends a useful messages to
   Vampires when magic resistance is being checked against them.
   Similarly, a message is generated by the obfuscate spell when
   check_seen is called against them. Player knowledge of such calls
   from the mudlib are inappropriate, and will be removed.

 - The duration of the flicker spell will be reduced to around 20
   seconds or so. Its a great ability, and lovely for the theme, so
   we want to keep it. However, in that it reduces parry, defence,
   and tohit against the opponents, it renders them practically
   helpless against the Vampire, so long as the Vampire has enough
   darkness items in their possession to overcome the 1 torch per
   10 second relight allowance (which they always seem to.) We
   do not want such a powerful game-changer to last the entire
   duration of battle (5 minutes, currently.)

 - Obfuscate will be changed so that the effect collapses entirely 
   when combat is begun. While the victim was able to see what was
   going on, the fact that others in the room were not made this a
   partial invisiblity effect, and destroyed logical combat mechanics
   for teams. No invisibility effects, even partial, will be allowed
   during combat for any guild abilities globally.

 - Obfuscate will be fixed so that it cannot be fail-proof. Currently,
   the spell uses a resolve_task to check on success/failure, hanging
   on to the result so that further testing is not necessary. However,
   a failure result can be removed by the simple act of recasting
   the spell which calls enhance_stalk_block() in the stalk.c part
   of the shadow. Doing this gives an essential 100% success rate,
   removing the purpose of the original call to resolve_task. Worse
   yet, the enhance_stock_block() calls continually raise the value
   for resolve_task, making it even less likely (impossible) to fail.

 - The use of guildstat will be modified to global standard, which
   is that guildstat may only be used to limit the power of a special,
   not to enhance it beyond what is paid in tax.

 - Dominate will be changed so that it cannot be used on messengers
   of any kind. Dominate is a very cool ability, and the idea that you
   can see through the eyes of a dominated valid npc is wonderful. The
   ability to glue a hidden camera to a postcard is not so cool.

 - Mesmerize will be modified to make use of the standard stun
   library. When the guild was first coded, this library did not
   exist, but now like all guilds, the effect will be centralized at
   its core.

 - Vampires currently experience regeration of hitpoints at a rate
   that exceeds max intox, and yet pay no tax for the ability. The
   justification has been that Vampires cannot gain the benefits from
   alcohol and food or herbs the way normal players can, and thus
   need the accelerated healing to break even (if that.) The problem
   is that Vampires *can* and *do* enjoy the benefits of herb
   consumption. Given that this is the case, they (the players)
   are being asked to choose between regeneration and herbs. Either
   they lose regeneration, or they lose the ability to benefit from
   herbs. Taxing the ability would be too costly for the guild,
   most likely, so one has to be cut.

 - Vampire spells will be reclassified as non-vocal, since they are
   currently treated as such.

 - Once all of the above changes are made, a new total of combat
   aid and tax will be in calculated for the guild. The main combat
   special of the guild will be adjusted to correspond with the amount
   of aid that remains available within the boundaries of taxation
   in conjunction with sensibility. It will be lower than its current
   100% setting, almost certainly. Perhaps closer to the original
   agreed-upon number of 80%.

Thanks again, Lilith. I know this has sucked in many ways for you and
for the Vampire players. These changes will probably be mostly completed
within a week. I will now mail the players a letter explaining things
for their perspective (and a CC of that to you, of course.)

G.
