Vampires,

As you all (I believe) know, the move from the old Emerald Coven to your
new existance in Terel under the influence of the Eldest has been a journey
that has taken many twists and turns. The wizard Novo was not originally
going to be involved with the process, but recognizing both the passion
and talent that he possessed for the enterprise, I made it possible for
him to be the one to create the content revisions that create the Vampire
experience, along with Lilith, who supplied the ambiance, lore, and your
wonderful new guildhall.

Novo was extremely innovative with his approaches to bringing the various
ideas he had to life. Unfortunately, these approaches have not all proven
to be compatible with our centralized approach to all guild creation as 
overseen by the Balance Team. Additionally, there are a few places where
Novo's creations have revealed slight tears in the fabric of space
(bugs, design errors, etc.) that have only become apparent as the guild
has been put through the paces by you, the dedicated players.

My philosophy in guiding Novo in this process was to not open with too
much power, because starting too weak and requiring a boost is far more
fun from a playing standpoint than starting too strong and requiring
a nerf. Novo took my advice in some ways, but in general tended to err
on the side of "too strong." In addressing the issue, I have asked the
Balance Team to come up with a list of concrete problems with the guild
which include only things which are clearly out of some boundary with
respect to the rest of the game, or, involve some breach of creation
rules or design errors.

Below, I am describing to you the things that will change in the
experience of playing a vampire and the reasons for this change. The
specifics are not always able to be conveyed, but I will always 
at least strive to communicate what I think is necessary knowledge for
you to understand what has happened and why.

Decided Changes to the Vampire Guild:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Change: Vampires and Bloodguards will not be able to gain quite as
        many benefits from draining their victims.
Reason: The simultaneous effect of drained skills and certain types
        of resistance was not sufficiently taxed according to
        regulations. The Vampires cannot continue to raise their tax,
        so the only alternative is to reduce the range of the drain
        ability.

Change: Vampires will do slightly less damage with their main melee
        special attack.
Reason: When the guild first opened, Novo agreed that we would set the
        special attack power lower than we thought appropriate (we'll
        call this "Level A".) It was eventually increased to a level
        we thought was actually more appropriate for the guild
        ("Level B".) Then, however, the special was again bumped up
        much higher than Novo or I had ever agreed upon ("Level C".)
        We are going back to somewhere closer to "Level B."

Change: Vampires will not be able to use the Dash ability quite as
        freely.
Reason: The ability, as it had been set up, rendered Vampires
        practically immune if they knew how to optimize their
        circumstances. We want them to be hard to catch, but not
        utterly impossible.

Change: Vampires will no longer be able to Fly out of a room if they
        have recently been in combat (utilizing the same timing check
        as trying to quit.)
Reason: Similar to above. Fly is meant to provide transportation, not
        to make Vampirse immune to being hunted or cornered. Moreover,
        there is a global precedent in place against combat porting
        for *any* guild.

Change: Vampires will no longer be able to use their scry spell while
        moving.
Reason: There is a new global standard for the simple scry spell, and
        all scries will now have these similar aspects.

Change: Vampires will no longer be given notification when magic
        resistance is being used against them.
Reason: This is classified as wiz info, unless some spell is cast which
        can detect it. It has existed as an innate and undocumented
        ability up till now, and must be removed.

Change: Vampires will still be able to extinguish annoying sources
        of natural light using flicker, but the duration of the effect
        will be far less than it has been in the past.
Reason: Flicker is a GREAT and cool ability, and we want to keep it
        because it so well represents the theme of terrifying masters
        of the Night. However ... a Vampire carrying many darkness
        sources who casts flicker should not be able to completely
        ruin a pvp opponent's chances for the entire duration of a
        fight.

Change: Vampires can no longer remain obfuscated once they enter
        combat.
Reason: Invisible combat is something that both Novo and I agreed was
        too controversial and too problematic for the game. It has 
        since been decided that any invisible combat is outright
        forbidden for *any* guild. Obfuscate has allowed Vampires to
        remain invisible to all but the one they are attacking, which
        is a sort of hybrid-invis combat. This sort of thing just isn't
        working for Genesis. Any guilds who use invisibility of any 
        kind will find this change imposed on them.

Change: Vampires will no longer be able to dominate messengers of
        any kind. 
Reason: Dominate in combination with the ability to purchase or summon
        a messenger gives the ability for a Vampire to have a scry-like
        combo which was never part of the thematic justification for
        this spell. The spell was designed to give Vampires the ability
        to see through the eyes of the denizens of the game, not to glue
        their eyes to postcards. ;-)

Change: Vampires will experience slightly different functionality with
        the Mesmerize spell.
Reason: When the spell was first created, the game did not have a 
        standard method for employing stun effects. Now that this standard
        has been created, the spell will be converted to its use.

Up for Discussion and Player Input:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

On one item, we need to know the preferences of the Vampire players
themselves. Currently the Vampires are given healing rates that out-
perform what is available when fully intoxicated. The Vampires
currently do not pay any tax for this ability. The justification for
the tax break was the idea that Vampires cannot drink alcohol or eat
herbs for healing (and other) benefits. But, of these, only the part
about not being able to become intoxicated are true. Vampires are able
to eat and gain the effects of herbs. So, we need to know what the
players would prefer. Would you rather:

    A. Lose regeneration, and function normally with regard to
       eating and drinking (like normal mortals) or ...
    B. Keep regeneration, but lose the ability to benefit (healing or
       otherwise) from eating herbs.

Plese let the AoB team know your preference!

This concludes the list. I'm sure in reading this, it feels like a great
many things have been either slightly or heavily nerfed. Unfortunately,
that is probably an accurate feeling. The important thing to me has been
that in making these changes we keep the guild:

    1. Fun to play
    2. Accurate to the Vampire Theme
    3. Scary for players who fight Vampires
    4. Powerful and potent

I believe all of these four things remain true. No abilities have been
removed. Instead, the changes here take existing abilities that were
functioning outside of design or acceptable parameters and bring them
into balance with the standards we have for the game.

I wish we'd been able to err more on the side of "too weak" when opening
so that this didn't feel the way it does. I am hoping that these changes
will not constitute a drastic shift for any of you, but they are indeed
necessary and are beyond further discussion.

I'm interested in hearing how things feel once you have walked in your
new shoes for a few miles. The changes will be taking place over the next
week or so.

G.