
      Psuchae is all that that surrounds us, and all that lies in the
      great in-between. What is Shadow but that which stands between
      light and void, a twilight that defines the the edges of those
      things that have no edge?

      Psuchae is neither male nor female, yet at the same time both,
      for as shadow lies between light and darkness, absence and
      existance, so it is that Psuchae is neither Lord nor Lady,
      maintaining the balance of the other Four.

      It is Psuchae that links the Elements together, binding them as
      the para-elements and the quasi-elements. Should the fog and mist
      be the domain of Aeria or Diabrecho? Should lava be governed by
      Pyros or Gu? Through the mysteries of Psuchae, the definitiveness
      of separate elements can be blended together in an exquisite dance.

      Serving Psuchae shall take your whole being. Psuchae only asks
      three things from you. One, you shall not poison your body with
      alcohol as it is impure for your soul. Two, you shall never speak
      of the secrets which Psuchae will impart upon you. To enforce this
      vow, you shall sacrifice that which will allow you to speak; your
      tongue. Fear not, communication methods shall not be fully lost.
      Three, and certainly not the least important; you shall abhor all
      things soulless. 

      Soulless are abominations in the eyes of Psuchae, an evil if you
      will. The deepest and darkest evil that can be. For this reason
      we are the opposite. As seen through the eyes of the outsiders
      we would be considered as good or holy. It is in this realm that
      we travel, so by these terms we shall live and be known as good. 

      If you are reading this, you have expressed interest to walk amoung
      us in the Spirit Circle. A Guide to that path is sitting with you,
      has given you this book to read. There are many questions likely
      forming in your mind. Ask all that you wish but know this: your
      Guide will only answer what is allowed. All else you shall have
      to trust in your heart, your mind, and your soul that Psuchae will
      guide you and watch over you in your journey.

      If after joining the Circle you choose to leave it, death shall not
      be your punishment. Instead a good portion of your gained experience
      shall be removed from you.

      Please give this book back to your Guide now. Ask your Guide all
      of that which you wish to know. 
