This tome will allow to perform a marriage ceremony in the chapel.
The same rules apply to the chapel as any other ceremony performed here,
once the incense is lit, the doors of the chapel are locked (so people
cannot barge in and disturb things). Please ensure before you begin
that all guests have arrived. Also, please ensure you have enough 
components to summon your familiar a few times, in case the ceremony
goes slow. You should know the material type of the rings beforehand.
If you do not, watch closely when they exchange them. Once that has 
all been done, this is what you will require:

Preparations:
- The male being married is the Groom, the female is the Bride.
- The person leading the ceremony is called the Priest/Priestess (P)
- The P should have the chalice and the bread from the sacristy.
- The person giving accompanyment to the Bride is refered to as the 
  Bride Blesser (BB).
- The person giving accompanyment to the Groom is refered to as the
  Groom Blesser (GB).
- The Bride and Groom should both have the rings to exchange with one
  another.
- The P, Bride and Groom should all be wearing the white robes.
- The P should also wear a mantle and alb.
- The P must carry a quantity of incense (two or three is a good idea).
- All participants should gather in the chapel where the ceremony
  must take place.
- NOTE: Once the ceremony has begun (the incense is loaded), the chapel
  doors will be locked to all non-members, and will not unlock until
  the incense burns out. If you have not completed the ceremony and the
  incense burns out, simply load another one.

Ceremony:
1 - The P formally welcomes all and announces/introduces the Bride and
    Groom.
2 - The P starts the incense with the command 'load incense'. It will
    start to burn immediately, but will take a while to fill the room,
    which must happen before the rest of the ceremony.
3 - The P should invoke the commands 'bride <Bridename>' then 'groom
    <Groomname>. (ie. 'bride Julie' then 'groom Bob')
4 - The P should invoke the command 'transform'.
5 - The P should invoke the command 'begin'.
6 - The Bride should answer something to the effect of 'Yes, it is true.'
7 - The P shall say "With whom do you come and whose blessings accompany
    you?"
8 - The BB should say something to the effect of 'She comes with me, her
    friend, and is accompanied by all of her family’s blessings.'
    (If there is no BB, the P can certainly modify the ceremony to say
     that they are accompanying the Bride and she has all of the
     blessings of her family).
9 - The P should ask: "I ask if the Groom comes of his own will and if
    he has his family’s blessing. Groom, is it true that you come of 
    your own free will and accord?"
10- The Groom should answer something to the effect of 'Yes, it is true.'
11- The P shall say "With whom do you come and whose blessings accompany
    you?"
12- The GB should say something to the effect of 'He comes with me, his
    friend, and is accompanied by all of his family’s blessings.'
    (If there is no GB, the P can certainly modify the ceremony to say
     that they are accompanying the Groom and he has all of the
     blessings of his family).
13- The P should invoke the command 'groom-wish' at this point.
14- The Groom should respond with 'It is my wish.' and should give his
    ring to the Bride.
15- The P should invoke the command 'bride-wish' at this point.
16- The Bride should respond with 'It is my wish.' and should give her
    ring to the Groom.
17- The P should state the following to the Groom, and have him repeat
    it:   "I <Groom's name>, by the life that courses within my blood, 
    and the love that resides within my heart, take thee <Bride’s name> 
    to my hand, my heart, and my spirit, to be my chosen one. To desire
    thee and be desired by thee, to possess thee, and be possessed by 
    thee, without shame, for naught can exist in the purity of 
    my love for thee. I promise to love thee wholly and completely 
    without restraint, in sickness and in health, in plenty and in 
    poverty, in life and beyond, where we shall meet, remember, and 
    love again. I shall not seek to change thee in any way. I shall 
    respect thee, thy beliefs, thy people, and thy ways as I respect 
    myself."
    (say each section seperately seperated by the commas to make it easy)
18- The P should say "If you, <Bride name>, agree with this, place
    <Groom name>'s ring on your finger."  She should wear the ring.
19- The P should state the following to the Bride, and have her repeat
    it:   "I <Bride’s >, by the life that courses within my blood, and
    the love that resides within my heart, take thee, <Groom’s name> 
    to my hand, my heart, and my spirit to be my chosen one. To desire
    and be desired by thee, to possess thee, and be possessed by thee,
    without shame, for naught can exist in the purity of my love
    for thee. I promise to love thee wholly and completely without 
    restraint, in sickness and in health, in plenty and in poverty, in 
    life and beyond, where we shall meet, remember, and love again. 
    I shall not seek to change thee in any way. I shall respect thee,
    thy beliefs, thy people, and thy ways as I respect myself."
    (say each section seperately seperated by the commas to make it easy)
20- The P should say "If you, <Groom name>, agree with this, place
    <Bride name>'s ring on your finger."  He should wear the ring.
21- The P should hand the chalice to the Groom and state:
    "May you drink your fill from the cup of love."
22- The Groom holds chalice to bride while she sips then gives it to
    the Bride. She holds it to Groom while he sips. The chalice is then
    handed back to the P.
23- The P should hand the bread to the Groom and state:
    "May you give your last morsel of bread for the love of your spouse."
24- The Groom should feed a piece of the bread to the Bride, then 
    give the remaining piece to the Bride.
25- The Bride should feed the piece to the Groom.
26- The P should state the following: "By the power vested in me, I 
    now pronounce you husband and wife. May your love so endure that
    its flame remains a guiding light unto you."
27- The P should invoke the command 'marry <Bridename> <Groomname> 
    <ring material>'. (ie. marry Julie Bob platinum)
28- The P should then invoke the command 'revert'.

