 frumpy green blankie
It is a knappy, rumpled blankie completely covered in tiny pilled up balls of fabric. It is a deep soft green color.
*clean/ dirty*

faded purple bunny blanket
The blanket is made of a faded and worn once purple felt.  It has clearly been well-loved.  Sewn to the center of the blankie is a whitish piece of felt that used to be a bunny.  There are two large faded blue eyes and a powder pink triangular nose with a single whisker left.  The bunny is so cute!! Even in this condition, and with it's matted up ball of a tail, it would be impossible not to love it.  There is a small label hanging by a few threads at one edge. 
*label For grandma's little "boy/girl"

pink girlie-blankie
It is a silky pink blankie for girlie-girls.  All covered in fluffy and silk and little ribbons! *boy* Ewww!*

multi-colored polka-dot blankie
It is a simple cotton blankie covered in all different colored little polka-dots.  The blankie has a little silky trim that is bright *random color* all around the edges. 

colorful cutsie blankie
A very colorful bankie covered with candy, and puppies, and kitties and faeries and dragons.

dirty brown blankie
It is a small square brown woolen blankie.  It looks to need a good dusting.
*dust blankie*
translucent shimmery blankie
the blankie is beautiful and irridecent, with multitude of soft colors that catch in the light.  It is made of fabric which, like gossimer faerie wings, is resplendant, thin, and beautiful, yet strong and strangely warm.  The feel of it is silky, like a breath of air caressing the skin.  

This blanket is posatively divine to all senses. 

ladybug blankie
The blankie is printed with delicate little ladybugs all over it.  As you look more closely you can see all the detail of their flecked red backs and beautiful little gossimer underwings as they fly about.

busy patchwork blankie
This blankie is a colorful conglomeration of the most wild and loud fabrics imaginable.  They are laid out without any apparent rhyme or reason on behalf of the "designer".  In fact, they seem to have been put together in the least fashionable way possible, but with a good deal of care apparent in the quality stiching and workmanship of intricately cut pieces-- as if a expert quilter with a labotomy, a drunken gnome, or perhaps a kender skilled in sewing, crafted it.



 crafted the design of a frightfully silly child.
