 Earth spell list.

Tier 1:

-Tell line. 5 mana.
-Skin of earth. Defensive spell. AC improvement between 20
and 40, depending on skills. 15-20 minutes duration. 40 mana.
-Dust cloud. Reveals the invisible creatures in the room, up to an
invis level of 3-5. Duration: 10 minutes.

Tier 2:
-Weakness. Target is sapped of strength. Strength is reduced by 25-40%. 
This spell can be cast many times on a single target, though with less 
benefit for each casting of course. (Earth is the element of strength, 
and thus of removing strength - as I see it.) Duration 5-6 minutes. 
Mana cost 60.
-Wall of stone. Blocks an exit, no way to get through. The caster and
characters with high earth magic can pass through it. Duration: 5 minutes. 
95 mana.
-Enchant stone. A player casts this spell on a precious gem. Low-value gems
won't work. As long as this gem remains in the inventory of the caster, 
and the caster is at full mana, the gem will slowly recharge at the same rate
the caster would gain mana. If the caster is not at full mana, the game will
discharge mana, at a rate proportional to the value of the gem.. till the gem
is empty. It begins with no mana inside, of course. Duration permanent, but
the gem does not save over armageddon. Spell cost: 100 mana.
-Fountain of Earth. The earth erupts in a fountain of earth under a target,
sending him flying up to five rooms away. Only works in an outdoor room,
and the target may only land in an outdoor room. Minor damage is inflicted
(100-200). 100 mana. 


Tier 3:
-Pebble to boulder. Caster throws a pebble at a target, which grows into a
boulder in midair and slams into its target. Maximum penetration 800, mana
cost 150. 
-Stoneskin. Defensive spell. Will cause a percentage of blows that would
otherwise hit, to bounce off. The maximum percentage would probably be
around 80%. Can't be combined with earthskin. 15-20 minutes. 150 mana. 
-Dust to dust. Cause a magical item to return to dust. Chance of success is
inversely proportional with the strength of the items enchantment, as defined
by its MAGIC_AM_MAGIC prop. Can target items in someone else inventory.
160 mana.
-Earthwalk. Caster sinks into the ground, and resurfaces at a previously
marked location in the same domain. Both room travelled from and target
room must be outdoors. 160 mana. (All Walkers have an emote to closely
study a location they're at.. and can store up to 3 locations this way,
that save over armageddon.) 



Tier 4:
-Forcefield. An impenetrable field of force forms around the caster. Caster
can't be attacked, nor can he attack anyone. 10 minutes, 200 mana.
-Flesh to stone. Target is turned into a stone statue, paralysis in game
terms. If attacked, he is treated as if he has the stoneskin spell
cast upon him. 3-5 minutes. 220 mana.
-Earthen wave. The earth ripples and a huge wave of earth travels outward
in a direction specified by the caster. It will keep going in that direction,
room after room, weakening with each step. Anyone in the rooms the wave passes
through are sent sprawling, stunned, a little damaged and possibly missing a 
piece or two of equipment. Loose items on the ground are also liable to travel
with the wave. Stun is in the order of 20-30 seconds, weakening as
the wave weakens, and damage 300-400 going down. Very large or massive targets
will be unaffected, and the wave cannot start nor travel indoors. Mana 230.
