The Stone Warders.

HISTORY:

	Shortly before the end of the Age of Might, the lands
of Khalakhor were bound together under the hand of a warrior
lord by the name of Kaltyn of Loren.  Kaltyn was a powerful man,
both as a leader and warrior, and men and women alike flocked to his 
banner during the War of the Barrens.  His armies defended much
of Khalakhor from the invading hordes from the darkness of the
Great Waste in the far north valiantly, until what was to become
the final battle of the war, north of the foothills beneath
Godsbreath Pass, just on the edge of the Great Waste itself.

	The battle was long, but the tide had turned, and
Kaltyn's forces were driving the armies of the wastelands back
into the north.  Seeing the battle was all but over, he and six 
of the remaining remembers of his elite guard returned to his
army's camp to if word had arrived of any other armies from
the wastelands in other places along the northern edge of 
the Stonebark Mountains.  Upon arriving in the camp, he found
himself confronted by a grim-faced messenger.  The messenger
brought news that Kaltyn's wife, Lysel, had been murdered.  

Her champion also fell, fatally wounded, but not before bringing
down the assassin.  The armies of the wastelands had planned
on the assassination drawing him from the battlefield before
the turning point, and only the messenger's horse drawing up
lame had prevented their plan from becoming fulfilled.  Had
this not happened, Kaltyn would have abandoned the battle to
see to his wife's body.  As it turned out, she died for nothing.  
Nothing short of an act of the gods themselves could swing the
battle to the favour of the armies of the north.  Kaltyn,
however, did leave to seek out his wife's body, and to find 
whoever had given the order to have her killed.

Mounting his horse, he drew the sword Light Talon from the
scabbard across his back.  With a mighty thrust, he drove
the sword of legend into the heart of a nearby stone, burying
it almost to the hilt.  Turning to his guardsmen, he bade them
remain to guard the sword, for he would return to claim it, but
could not take it to the lands he knew he must walk.  Without
waiting for acknowledgment, Kaltyn of Loren vanished upon his
black stallion from the foothills north of Godsbreath Pass,
never to be seen again.

His six guardsmen, however, remained loyal.  They stood guard
around the stone night and day for a full fortnight, with
neither sleep nor food to sustain them.  On the fourteenth day,
the guardsmen all fell into a deep slumber.  What they saw in
that sleep remains a secret known only to those six, but all
know of the result.  Upon awaking, they set about gathering
all the masons and smiths that were loyal to Kaltyn.  And there,
around the stone which sheathed the blade Light Talon, they
erected the fortress known as Stonekeep.  Those six elite
guardsman became the first of the Stone Warders, and ever 
since that battle, 630 years past, the Stone Warders have
guarded the sword in the stone, awaiting the return of Kaltyn
of Loren.


STRUCTURE:

	The Stone Warders are a single-minded group.  They are
utterly devoted, and have only one cause, which is the protection
of the Stone.  That is, the stone in which Kaltyn's sword, Light
Talon, is embedded.  There are four primary ranks within the Stone
Warders.  Those of Protector, Defender, Guardian, and finally
Warder.  The highest rank of Warder is a special rank, bestowed
only upon those who stand Vigil during the full period of the 
Vigilance.

	The `council' of the Stone Warders are the Lords of the
Stone Warders.  They are six of the Warders chosen by the others.

THE VIGIL AND THE VIGILANCE:

	The Vigilance, or the Time of Vigilance, is a period
observed annually in remembrance of the fortnight spent by the
six guardsmen of Kaltyn guarding the Stone for the first time.
It occurs once a year, and lasts for two weeks.  Stonekeep itself
is lit up with life, as the Vigilance is largely celebrated as a
holiday by those who remember the deeds of Kaltyn of Loren, and
Stonekeep is often visited as a sort of `shrine' at this time
of year.  For the Stone Warders, the Vigilance has more
significant meanings, depending on rank.

	During the Vigilance, the Protectors and Defenders spend
most of their time patrolling and maintaining order amongst the
visitors of Stonekeep.  They are the closest related ranks,
differing mainly in the Defenders having more experience and skill
in combat, and are also the youngest ranks.  As such they have
little responsibility except the general protection of Stonekeep,
and frequently take advantage of this, spending spare time
mingling with visitors, out traveling, or jousting with one
another.  Many a fortune has been won and lost betting on the
victors of these contests, frequently to the amusement of both
victor and loser of the contests.

	The Warders of Stonekeep have the most responsibility.
They are the elite ranks of the Stone Warders, and it is from
this rank the six Lords of the Stone Warders are chosen, the
magistrates of the Stone Warders.  According to legend, it is
said that Kaltyn will return during the Vigilance, and this is
known only to the Warders.  Due to this, the Warders spend most
of the Vigilance in search of Kaltyn.

	The Guardians have perhaps the greatest task before them
during the Vigilance, known as the Vigil.  Guardians are Defenders
who have been granted the privilege of  rank by the Warders.
During the Vigilance, Guardians who wish to become Warders may take
up what is known as the Vigil.  During the Vigil, Guardians stand
guard around the Stone, never leaving except if Stonekeep itself
is under attack and their presence could be a deciding factor.
Only Guardians who have stood the entire Vigil may be granted the
rank of Warder.

THE COVEN OF THE STONE:

	One hundred and forty-five years ago, a handful of Stone
Warders made a new interpretation of the prophecies of Kaltyn's
return.  Unlike the typical Stone Warder, it was their belief
that the prophecies did not mean Kaltyn would return to take up
Light Talon, rather that he who took the sword from the Stone
would become a warrior of legend much as Kaltyn did.  The Lords
of the Stone Warders viewed this as blasphemous, and a great deal
of blood was shed as those who shared the new interpretation
attempted to take the sword from the Stone.  Such an act is a
death sentence by the laws of the Stone Warders.

	Driven from Stonekeep, those who agreed with the new
interpretation formed a new group called the Coven of the Stone.
Much the same as the Stone Warders in abilities and organization,
to this day they constantly battle with the Stone Warders for
possession of the Stone.  Except during the Vigilance, which
even they still view as an almost holy time, and will not attempt
to obtain the Stone.
