Dwarven start location.
Written by Nuf.

 --History--
 In the beginning of the history, the dwarves lived in the
 mountains. They made a living from forging different items.
 Armours, weapons, and handy day-to-day things, tools of various
 sorts. Hammers, primitive saws, dirks and other useful things.
 Many of the dwarves were therefore smiths, blacksmiths, 
 weaponsmiths and so forth. These people were the foundation 
 of the dwarven society. They were the workers and regarded
 highly by all other dwarves. Higher ranked were the merchants,
 slightly more intelligent, they got to travel out from the
 mountain and see the world. The great stories about bravery
 and vastness of the other world they brought home, brought
 them much respect, but at the same time suspicions. Who knows 
 what they were doing out there, trading the stuff made here 
 at home. Highest on the hierarchy was the King, or chief if 
 you like. He was the wise man, the one who decided occasional 
 disputes.
 So far everything was quiet and peaceful, except for some 
 domestic indifferences. Until the day the ore in the mines
 were emptied, and the little creatures all had to come up
 and learn the other worlds ways. There were a few dwarves that
 decided to stay in the mountains, and they form the religious
 movements today. The Kings power and significance diminished, 
 and the well travelled merchants began to take over bit by 
 bit.
 This is where we are today. 

 --Climate--
 The weather is mild. Though in the winters it gets cold. Not
 horribly cold, but still enough to take the coats out of the
 closet. If the wind is still and the sun high on a summer day,
 it can get hot and humid. From the mountains in the east 
 rain filled clouds often sweep over the inlands passing the 
 town, disappearing as it meets the freash ocean air. It's not
 to windy inlands, rendering in long periods of rain and equally
 long periods of good weather. Which ever preferences you have 
 for good weather. The mountains are mostly cloud-clad. 

 --Fauna--
 Trees - Birch is dominating the forest area from the town to
 the mountain of dwarves. Also other "leaf trees" such as oaks,
 Though no old oaks are still alive. On the other side the 
 river, the forest is thicker, and more cypresses and barr 
 trees. This is the forest that expands down to the Goblin
 mountain. 
 Flowers & Herbs - Cloves, green grass dominates the landscape,
 on both sides of the river, stretching from a bit outside the 
 town to near the mountain feet. Just out side town there's not
 much of vegetation at all, more like swampy. Lots of fungus 
 and some berries.

 --Geology--
 Mountain is common old grey granite. The soil is soft, near 
 the town swampy. It's much sand in it, so it would be suited 
 for farming, but of course, dwarves never understood that.
 Mountain contains all kinds of valuable minerals, gold ,silver
 and sofort.

 --Wildlife--
 Boars, rabbits and different kinds of birds roam the the part
 between the town and Dwarven Mountain(from now on referred to
 as simply D.M). On the other side pf the river up to the 
 Goblin Mountain(from now on denoted G.M), lives wild wolves,
 owls, mice and worms.

 --Trading--
 Common trading objects are armours, weapons, saws, dirks, 
 hammers and other household items, and last but not the least,
 the very special beers and ales the brewery makes.
 These are sold and traded for wood, and all kinds of metals,
 but mostly gold.
 
 --Intrigues--
 There are three groupings. Three families that are trying to 
 control the King/Chief by bribing him with gold and luxurious
 items. They are the three Trading Houses, very shrewd.
 One of the families control the brewery, one the imports,
 and the third exports. All the merchants have one common
 goal, and that is to eradicate the religious movements in the
 mountain. And the movement is trying to find the gods within
 the mountain. Sometimes they come up to the town, and try to
 make people realize you need to please the gods.
 
 --Social life--
 Socializing happens on the pubs in the town. Each movement
 of merchants has it's own pub. This means three pubs. The 
 pubs that are run by the two groups that doesn't control
 the brewery gets less good ale and beer from there.
 Every now and then there's a market with foreign articles
 sold. Exotic stuff like colorful clothing.
 
 --Religion--
 I feel that the religious movement defined would limit the
 ways of roleplaying. This is a dilemma. The best way to 
 approach might be to let the gods be forgotten and have them
 think up their own notion of what the God was like.

 --Transports--

 --Areas--

 Dwarven mountain

 *NPC's
 Religious people walking around, trying to do some maintaining
 on walls, lighting torches and trying to find the God within
 the mountain. Could find one or two adventurers as well, 
 trying to find treasures and items of a long forgotten past. 
 The spiritual leader can be found here as well. He can get 
 along with most people, even the worldly merchants and town
 dwarves. Although, he despises merchants of all kinds and
 distrusts everyone except his followers. You can find him 
 knocking and banging walls deep inside the mountain in the 
 search for the God, whom he believe will be able to guide them
 in the matter of exterminating the Goblins. 

 *Features
 Cold, partly lit(religious people tend to that). The 
 condition of tunnels and passageways are generally in pretty
 good shape, considering the many years it's been more or less
 abandoned. At some places the ceilings have sunk in.

 *Objects
 Weapons - Axes(hidden), maybe some mining tools(hammer).
 Armours - Helm(hidden), old warm tunic, a pair of boots.
 Other   - Possibly have something to fetch for someone.
 Money   - Maybe let some of the adventurers carry some.

 *Rooms
 Hidden  - One hidden room on every level which requires
           searches.
 Non obvious - A couple of non obvious exits, the shaft 
               for instance.

 Dwarven town

 *NPC's
 King
 Mleader1 - Always clad in fancy, very expensive clothes. He's 
            got piercing eyes from days and days of examining
            objects and persons. He's got one wife, and several
            lovers. Kind of a harem situation, the wife accepts
            it, though bigamy is not allowed. A dwarf of age
            and respect, though many is talking behind his 
            back.
 Mleader2 - A man whose devotion to his wife is well known. But
            sometimes the worst gets the better of him and the
            sweet melodies of money sing in his ears, i.e, he
            works an enormous amount of time, leading to loud
            arguments between him and his wife. He's usually
            found dressed in common clothes, very practical.
            The practicality is one of the foremost features
            his wife love him for. Mleader1 hates him because
            he's respected for the person he is, and not like
            Mleader1, for the power.
 Mleader3 - He's a bachelor, loving women/females as much as a man 
            can. He's romantic, but tends to get drunk, as he is 
            the leader of of the Brewery House. You never can tell
            where you got this dwarf. One thing's for sure, he's
            always got a red nose.
 Brewery master
 
 *Features
 All outer furnishings seems to not draw the dwarves sense of order 
 and maintenance attention. It was other when they still lived
 down in the mines/tunnels. There they could spend hours and
 hours polishing, finishing floors and walls. But the inner
 decorating is the more impressive. Beautiful candelabres,
 "torch holders", and stuff that a blacksmith would generally
 make.
 
 *Objects
 
 *Rooms
 Brewery
 Pub1 - Food is the speciality, the prices are steep so this is 
        where the richest and more respected dwarves tend to meet.
        It is clean and you can even have tablecloths if you insist.
        This is the pub MH1 controls. Drinks are ok, but not good.
 Pub2 - This pub is mostly populated by merchant employed dwarves.
        You'll find decent food and lousy drinks, food is the right 
        price, but the money you spend on the beer here is a waste
        of good labour(i.e money).
 Pub3 - Drinks is the speciality. Good beer and ales to very
        reasonable prices. This is a rough pub where all ship mates
        and lower class people gather. Often small fights and disputes
        over virtually nothing, something like who has the nicest hammer
        or similar. This pub is a bit hidden away, located quite close
        to the brewery        
 Message center
 MH1(merchants) - They control export.
 MH2 - They control import.
 MH3 - They control the brewery.
 Chapel/Religious center
 

 Goblin mountain

 *NPC's

 *Features

 *Objects

 *Rooms

 Forest dwarven side

 *NPC's

 *Features
 Since the forest too has seen better days, most trees were 
 chopped down to support fire for the forges, the animals are 
 hmm.. they're skinny, not wellfed. The wildlife is quite 
 sparse.

 *Objects

 *Rooms

 Forest goblin side

 *NPC's

 *Features

 *Objects

 *Rooms

 --Walk through--
 Let's start in the dwarven mountain. Level 0(level is denoted Lx from
 here on) is the lowest level that you can get these days. Everything
 is sterile, and the passageways are structured and on straight lines.
 An evidence of the superior dwarven mountain architectural knowledge.
 It's cold and you would recommend people that will travel here to
 bring warm coats and furs. You start in the west end, you walk 
 eastwards into i dimly lit tunnel. You pass a crossing, leading north
 and south. You end up in a shaft leading up and down. But only way is
 up these days.	





