----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     HISTORY OF THE ORDER OF SEAN-RHIAN
                        VOLUME IV - THE AGE OF MIGHT
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
The Age of Might began as a dark period in the history of Sean-Rhian. Their
members and powers defeated by the forces of Chaos, The Wise dissolved,
half of the member orders disappearing completely. Nearly all lay
practicioners and Saggarts of Sean-Rhian were slain in the early years
of this age, leaving the Manachs as heirs and protectors of the faith.
 
Most of the abbeys and kirks of the order were destroyed by the goblin
armies, decimating even the ranks of the Manachs. The remainder gathered
themselves together and left the mainland, taking refuge on an isolated
and uninhabited island, hiding from the forces which sought to destroy
them. Now defunct, the Order of Saggarts was officially abolished, the
few remaining becoming Manachs. A great arch abbey and kirk were constructed
on this remote island, becoming the home of the order for many years.
 
For hundreds of years the Manachs remained in isolation in their arch
abbey, safe from the continual wars waged on the mainland. During this
time, however, the Manachs deepened their practice of the faith and greatly
strengthened the wielding of their mystical powers.
 
In time, human and dwarven armies were able to drive the forces of
Chaos back to their wretched lands once again, leaving most of
Khalakhor to be ruled by warlords. Safe from the minions of Chaos
but wary of the fickle and petty warlords, the Manachs established
the Order of Searmanaghs of Sean-Rhian, an order of brave souls willing
to journey back to the mainland and make converts of the people.
 
At first, converts either formed communities of lay practicioners lead
by a Searmanagh, or journeyed to the arch abbey to become a Manach.
Seeing desirable results from the re-introduction of Sean-Rhian on
the mainland, warlords began to invite the order back to their lands,
allowing Manachs to rebuild several of their kirks and abbeys. Slowly
spreading back across the lands as healers and teachers, the order
quietly prospered under the sometimes harsh rule of the warlords of
the land.
 
Near the end of the age, a powerful warlord named Lord Braynt of Telonden
declared himself Highlord of Khalakhor and ruled much of the land.
A formal agreement made between the Highlord and the order allowed
the Manachs to build abbeys and kirks in many places, providing
education and healing to the people. During the rule of the Highlord,
assured of safety as long as they cooperated, the order moved its
center back to its ancient homeland from the island where they had
lingered for so long. The Order of Searmanaghs, no longer needed as
the Manachs were now spreading back across the lands, was eventually
absorbed back into the Order of Manachs.
