----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     HISTORY OF THE ORDER OF SEAN-RHIAN
                        BOOK I - THE AGE OF REBIRTH
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Thus begins the history of the Order of Sean-Rhian, in the southeastern
speir of the land of Khalakhor, during the Age of Rebirth, which began
over five thousand years ago, lasting near to two thousand years. Peace and
harmony thrived in this land, protected and nurtured by the power of
Order of the Triad, called Ardaugh in the ancient tounge. In this land
evolved and thrived the noble race of the Elves of Khalakhor, prospering
in the peace and harmony of the lands blessed by Ardaugh.
 
In the middle of this great Age, a group of nine elven spiritualists sought
to commune with Ardaugh through the use of rites, chants and meditations.
The Archangel Maighal, the master of the minions of Ardaugh, as reckoned
by those who follow his Way, was sent by Ardaugh in response to their
entreaties. With them Maighal made The Covenant, that as long as they
would obey him and worship Ardaugh as he instructed, he would reveal to
them the mysteries they sought, and would grant to them great wisdom and
power, and the harmony of Ardaugh. Thus began "The Way," as was called
the new faith, with the nine being named "The Solsheyderi."
 
The Solsheyderi were taught many things by Maighal over several years,
and when the time had come, were sent out into the lands to teach The
Way to all who would listen, and believe, and bind themselves to The
Covenant. Many communities of followers, or Disciples, were founded by
the nine amongst the elven nations, and received instruction from the
Solsheyderi, and grew in their faith.
 
When the time came for the Solsheyderi to leave the world of mortality,
they founded the Order of Sean-Rhian as the authoritative and teaching
mechanism of The Way, consisting of the Elders of each community,
and the Seirsanach as its supreme leader. Great prophets and scholars
arose during this time, leaving a deposit of writings which, along with
those of the Solsheyderi, compose the holy writings of the faith.
 
By the close of the Age of Rebirth, the Order of Saggarts of Sean-Rhian,
the priestly cast of the followers, had evolved. These saggarts spread
the faith throughout all the elven lands, some bringing The Covenant even
to the villages of humans and dwarves. They grew in their communion with
Ardaugh, through the intercession of Maighal and the Solsheyderi, refining
the rites and chants in honor of Him, wielding great powers of healing, and
of the mind, and of nature, to bring all into harmony with Ardaugh.
 
The peace and prosperity of the Age of Rebirth, and the spread of the faith,
were shattered by the onslaught of the first goblin wars, bringing the great
Age to an end.
