---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       The Third Book of St. Keophen
                     The Book of the Order of Ard-Rhian
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
I Keophen, first Archepiskopos and Oracle of Ard-Rhian, have already
written to you, beloved follower of the Way, and revealed to you how
our land and our race and our faith with its Covenant came to pass, and
how Maigal the Archangel of the Most High revealed himself to the Aposteloi
and taught them and assumed them into the power of the Most High. I write
these words to you that you may not be ignorant of the truth of how our
Order came to be, as I myself witnessed and as was revealed unto me by
the Archangel and the Aposteloi.
 
Now the followers of the Way were keeping vigil, expecting the return of
the Aposteloi to reveal to them what had come to pass on the mountain's
peak the day the great star formed there and ascended into the sky. It came
pass that the Aposteloi appeared together in their spirit forms to each
community of the Way. And in each community, they consecrated a superior
whom they gave the title Episkopos, which in the unknown tounge means
"the overseer," and instructed each of them to journey to the same
mountain top as their assumption. One of those chosen and consecrated
was myself, Koephen of the Northeastern Isles.
 
When the number of the Episkopoi at the gathering on the mountain's peak
was complete, the Aposteloi appeared with the Archangel Maigal, a great
aura of blinding holy light around them. And the Episkopoi fell prostrate
before them in fear, for none but the Aposteloi had ever seen the
Archangel and stood in his presence. In unison the Archangel and the
Aposteloi spoke, saying, "Hail Chosen of the Aposteloi, servants of the
Archangel, and children of the Most High! Peace and Harmony be with you!
Today we bind you closer together in perfect unity, and we ordain and
commission you to lead the followers of the Way! They shall pledge
their obedience to you, as you pledge yours to us, that all may
grow in harmony, and approach perfect unity! And you shall be given
great authority in the new Order, the Order of Ard-Rhian, the Order
of the Supreme Rite, to bind those to the covenant whom you deem
to be worthy! Dedicate yourselves to us and to your commission, and
it shall be so!"
 
With this the Episkopoi cried with a great voice, "Hail Archangel
of the Most High! Hail Aposteloi of the Most High! We hear your
words, and we prostrate ourselves in obedience to you! Let it
be done as you have spoken!" And with this, the Order of Ard-Rhian
was founded on the sacred mountain top.
 
Then again the Archangel and the Aposteloi spoke in unison, saying,
"We call forth one from your number, to whom all the others shall
pledge their obedience, even as he is obedient to us! He shall
rule over you, and authority shall be given to him to ordain
others of your number! To him and his successors, whom we shall
divinely choose at the time needed, you and all the followers of
the Way shall be obedient! Rise Keophen of the Northeastern Isles,
for we have chosen you as the first to hold this sacred office!"
 
And I rose trembling at the power which I beheld, and said, "My
obedience I give to you! Let it be done as you have said!" And
with this, the Aposteloi laid their hands on me, and I was filled
with a great power of peace and harmony and wisdom. And with this
was established the office of the Archepiskopos.
 
A third time the Archangel and the Aposteloi spoke in unison, saying,
"At the ordained times, we shall elevate one of your people to
the prophetic office of Oracle! To the Oracles we shall reveal
great mysteries, and to the Oracles we shall give the gift of
prophecy and revelation! Their writings shall be as scriptures
unto you, and their prophecies as commandments from ourselves unto
you! Thus shall we preserve the purity of the Way, in those times
when we see fit!"
 
"You Keophen, first Archepiskopos of Ard-Rhian, shall now also be the
first Oracle of Ard-Rhian, for we shall speak with you all the days of your
life, and shall reveal great mysteries to you. And when your life comes to
an end, you shall receive the knowledge of the greatest mystery of all,
and shall be assumed into the power of the Most High, and shall become as
we are, eternal spiritual servants of the Most High and of the Way! Now
return unto your people, and tell them all that has been revealed unto you,
and renew their consecration to the Covenant!" And with this, the Archangel
and the Aposteloi ascended into the sky in a great and blinding light.
 
We returned to the people, to the children of the Way, and instructed
them on what had taken place. Each child gave his obedience to the Episkopos
appointed over him, and all to the Archepiskopos. They renewed the
Covenant between themselves and the Most High and his Archangel. And the
communities continued to grow in peace and harmony under the rule of the
Episkopoi and their appointed shepherd, who continue to receive
revelations and teaching from the Aposteloi, who appear unto him.
 
May you keep the three books which I have written unto you, beloved
follower of the way, always in your heart, and pass them down from
generation to generation, that all may know the truth of what has
come to pass. May the blessing of the Most High, the Archangel, and
the Aposteloi be upon you.
