---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       The Second Book of St. Keophen
                         The Book of the Aposteloi
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
As I have already written to you, faithful child of the Way, of how our
land and our race and our faith with its Covenant came to be. Hear now
the words of what came to pass after the first appearance of the
Archangel Maigal, as it was revealed to me, the first Archepiskopos and
Oracle of Ard-Rhian, by the Apostoloi and the Archangel.
 
After making their Covenant with the Archangel, and giving him their
obedience by prostrating themselves before him, the holy seven separated
themselves from their family and their brethren, and moved into the
mountains in obedience to the commands of the Archangel. And for a score
of years, they lived together in peace and harmony, communing with the
Archangel Maigal, and growing in wisdom in the mysteries he brought them.
To live in peace and harmony with each other, in obedience to him, and to
promote the same amongst all of creation was the theme of his teachings.
And to strive for transcendant communion with the Most High, through
canticle, and meditation, and rite, all of which he taught to them.
 
Now after this time, the Archangel appeared unto the seven, cloistered
in their mountain abode, and said, "Now is the time that I shall send
you to your people, that you may teach the Way unto them, as I have
taught you. To those who have holiness of heart, and a thirst for
union with the Most High, you are to offer the promise and power of the
Covenant I have made with you. And to you I give the authority to
bind to the Covenant those seekers who you deem sincere and worthy,
and who are ready to give utter obedience, that the teachings of the
Way shall increase, and the blessings of the Way may be made manifest
in all the world." With this he held his hands out over them, and his
wings fanned out behind him, and a great light befell the seven, and
they were illumined with the promise he had given them.
 
So it came to pass that the seven, whom the Archangel had called the
Aposteloi, meaning "those who are sent out" in the unknown tounge, left
their abode and went unto their people. They taught the Way to their
folk, and found many followers amongst them. And the Aposteloi separated
from each other, and traveled throughout Paradise, teaching the Way,
and establishing communities of the Way as they went. For a score of
years they did such, and the Way increased greatly, the followers
nourished by the teachings of the divinely inspired Aposteloi.
 
Now after this time, the Archangel Maigal appeared unto the seven, and
summoned them together to the peak of a mountain, and there he spoke,
saying, "Behold, the time has come that you are to receive the greatest
mystery which I shall give you! You shall submit yourselves totally,
mind and body, to the power of the Most High; and you shall be absorbed
into the realm of the Most High, and you shall enter an eternal spiritual
existence, in which you may serve the Way forever." And the seven did
as the Archangel bade them, and they lay prostrate at his feet. A great
light shone about them all, a light which was seen for many leagues from
the mountain's peak by thousands. And the seven were assumed into the
power of the Most High, and became spiritual beings, just as the Archangel
had promised them.
 
Now the people pondered what had occurred, for they knew the Aposteloi
had been summoned to the mountain top, and that a great light had been
seen there, as if a star had formed at the mountain's peak and rose
into the sky. But the Aposteloi did not return for many days, and the
children of the Way pondered what had happened, and kept vigil in
wait for the return of the Aposteloi, for they did not know what all
these strange happenings would mean.
 
These things you shall keep in your heart, beloved follower of the Way,
and pass these words down to all generations, teaching them to your
children, that the fullness of the truth shall endure forever.
