---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       The First Book of St. Keophen
                           The Book of Origins
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
I Keophen, first Archepiskopos and Oracle of The Way, write these words to
you, the faithful of The Way, that you may not be ignorant of the truth;
and that you may know that which was passed on to me by the blessed
Aposteloi themselves, who received the revelation from Maigal the Archangel
of the Most High, on whose revelation and intercession our Way stands.
Peace and Harmony be with you all.
 
In the beginning, the land was engrossed in a vortex of confusion, the
powers of the Triad, Order, Balance and Chaos, tearing and ripping at
all, so that nothing could stand. And it came to pass that the power
of Order, the Most High, spread across the vortex, and gathered to itself
a portion of the land. And in that portion was created Paradise, where all
things were brought into harmony with one another. From this harmony sprang
forth the lands and the seas, and all living creatures, all existing
in harmony with one another, and all dependent upon one another, according
to the perfect plan ordained by the Most High.
 
And in this Paradise, our own race was brought forth by the power of the
Most High, and was set to rule over it, to care for it, and to maintain
the harmony which had been placed there. Thus we came into being,
and were fruitful, and spread across the land, settling in the coves
and valleys of Paradise, a happy people living in harmony with the
perfect nature ordained by the Most High. With the power of their hands and
the sweat of their brow, they tilled the soil and brought forth food,
they tamed wild beasts, and built a humble but peaceful civilization
in Paradise.
 
And it came to be that as the eons passed, that a few of the people began
to marvel and wonder at the beauty and perfect harmony of nature, and
began to realize that Paradise could not have been created by chance,
but was instead perfectly planned and set into motion by a supernatural
force which they called the Most High. And so they set out to commune with this
deity, that the mysteries of the universe might be revealed unto them.
This they did with meditations and rites, with which they attempted to
commune with and invoke the spiritual power of the Most High, to transcend
their harmonious though natural existence.
 
It came to pass that a group of seven spiritualists came together, as had
become their custom, to commune with each other and meditate on the mysteries
of the universe. And in the heights of their transcendance, behold, a great
angel appeared to them, his countenance blinding them with a holy light.
And the angel spoke, saying, "Hail Children of the Most High, Peace and Harmony be
with You! I am Maigal, the Archangel of the Most High, the creator of paradise
and yourselves! I have heard your invocations, and watched over your search
for truth, and have chosen you to receive the revelations of the mysteries!"
 
The seven fell down before the Archangel, and worshipped it, for they
were struck with terror, yet were in awe and anticipation. And the
Archangel continued, "A Covenant I shall make with you, that you may
be worthy to receive the revelation of power; and it shall make you
my people, and I your shepherd! You shall pledge your complete
obedience to me, in harmony with yourselves and with me, and our
Covenant shall bring us into unison, and make you worthy to receive
my words!"
 
With this the seven answered in one voice, "Hail Archangel of the
Most High! We hear your words and make our Covenant with you! We
pledge our eternal obedience and worship to you! You are our shepherd,
and we are your people!" With this the Covenant was made between
the power of the Most High, through its Archangel Maigal, with our ancestors.
And with this began the Way in its original form, the holy seven
in harmony with each other seeking communion with the Most High, obedient
to his Archangel.
 
These are the words of the origins of our land, and of the origin of our
race, and of the origin of our faith and our Covenant. These words you
shall hand down, and teach them to your children, so that they may know the
truth of what has come to pass.
