Title:    Banshee Mask Quest - Necronisi Quest 2
By:       Lilith Summer 2021 
Location: Necronisi
Exp:      7000
Group:    0
Bit:      11

     Bring the Banshee the death mask of her Beloved. 
At first glance this seems like just another simple tour quest. Npc wants 
something and asks you to find it and bring it back to them for a reward. 
Simple right? Not.

So, first you have to get to the Isle of the Dead, aka The Necronisi. For
most people this involves 3 boat trips: 
1) taking a boat to the port of Sybarus, 
2) walking to the Outpost and then taking the boat to the Bazaar,
3) and then walking to the north end of the Bazaar island, hopping into a
   coffin, and waiting for the coffin to be dragged onto the ferry to the
   Necronisi (the ferryman only transports the dead).
  
Then, you find your way up to the top of the hill on the Necronisi and meet
up with the Banshee--whom most people won't be able to understand because 
her existence is at a faster speed than ours. When she walks, all we hear
is fast-paced screeching.

If the questor has completed the Fix Watch quest and has the watch on them,
they can wind the watch for a boost to quickness and this will make it 
possible for them to interact with and understand the banshee. There are 
other +quickness items, and the required quickness is pretty low (25), so
players don't have to have the watch. 

The banshee won't talk to the questor about the mask she wants until they
have completed the Catacomb Gate quest. Once the Catacombs Gate quest is
done, she will tell the questor that there is a specific mask she wants,
the death mask of her beloved. It is one of 16 possible masks cloned
to 7 possible locations.

From there, the player can either go through the Catacomb Gate or be 
dropped into the Catacombs by the Banshee. 

The main Catacombs area is 140 rooms, give or take. It is populated with
autoattacking revenants, exit-blocking skeletons, and critters like rats,
spiders, hellbenders, and grubs. There are 7 myth-sized revenants that
guard 7 rooms with sarcophagi that contain the death masks of the High
Lords. The tunnels are three interconnected lobes, so questors are likely 
to circle back on themselves as they hack through the mobs trying to locate 
the one specific mask that may or not be cloned yet. It is quite likely
that a player would have to comb the catacombs 2 times or more to find
what they are looking for. 

The questor will take an extensive amount of damage, as the myth revenants 
guarding the sarcophagi have 60/60 fists, 100 skillstats, and a special 
bite attack that poisons. It can't really be done as a walk-through, 
because there is no certainty as to whether or not the correct mask
exists at that time, nor which of the 7 locations it would be in.

Files Involved:
Cairn      /d/Avenir/common/dead/hill/cairn.c
Banshee    /d/Avenir/common/dead/mon/banshee.c
Death Mask /d/Avenir/common/dead/obj/death_mask.c
