Title:    Catacombs Gate Quest - Necronisi Quest 1
By:       Lilith Summer 2021 
Location: Necronisi
Exp:      3500
Group:    0
Bit:      1

     Give the Chatelaine a token of the God's Grace to Open The Way.
At first glance this seems like a simple tour quest. Make your way through 
an area, find an npc, give them something, and get your experience. Its not.

So, first you have to get to the Isle of the Dead, aka The Necronisi. For
most people this involves 3 boat trips: 
1) taking a boat to the port of Sybarus, 
2) walking to the Outpost and then taking the boat to the Bazaar,
3) and then walking to the north end of the Bazaar island, hopping into a
   coffin, and waiting for the coffin to be dragged onto the ferry to the
   Necronisi (the ferryman only transports the dead).
  
Then, you find your way up to the top of the hill on the Necronisi and meet
up with the Banshee--whom most people won't be able to understand because 
her existence is at a faster speed than ours. 

If the questor has completed the Fix Watch quest and has the watch on them,
they can wind the watch for a boost to quickness and this will make it 
possible for them to interact with and understand the banshee. There are 
other +quickness items, and the required quickness is pretty low (25), so
players don't have to have the watch--anything that gets them past the 
_live_i_quickness 25 threshold will work. It is, however, useful in the 
next step.

At the top of the hill (cairn) are 12 monolithic objects, one for each of 
the 12 Hours in each Sybarite Day. After talking with the Banshee, the
questor should have enough information to understand that they need to 
interact with the Guardian of the current Hour in order to gain access 
to the Catacombs. The watch will give them that time, or they can find
it at the clepsydra in the Bazaar (by the bank) or the time crier in 
the courtyard of the Forbidden City. Or they can look carefully at
the monuments to figure out which one has a slight glow. That one will
be the one to interact with. 
 
There are various verbs supported for the Questor-Hour Guardian interaction.
The questor can use respectful or worshipful verbs like "pray", "worship",
and "bow" and they will be dropped into a random spot in the Catacombs.
If they do things like "kick" or "grope" or "spit" they are going to find
themselves attacked by the Banshee. And then she'll drop them into the 
pit of despair deep in the Catacombs, which they will then have to climb
out of (a very fatiguing prospect). 

The main Catacombs area is 140 rooms, give or take. It is populated with
autoattacking revenants, exit-blocking skeletons, and critters like rats,
spiders, hellbenders, and grubs. Questors are dropped randomly into this
dungeon, and they've got to figure out which way go to get to the exit,
which of course is not clearly marked on the Magic Maps. The tunnels are 
three interconnected lobes, so questors are likely to circle back on 
themselves as they try to locate the Gate to the Catacombe while either
running away from or hacking away at the undead residents there.

As they explore, players are likely to stumble upon things that move
them out of the catacombs back to the surface, which means that they'll
have to go back in again and start over trying to locate the Gate.

Once they do find the gate, they will see that there is the ghost 
of a Chatelaine there, who acts as the gatekeeper. In order to get
past her for the first time and solve the quest, the questor must be
able to give her a sybarun coin, which is a common token required by
many gatekeepers in Sybarus.

This quest is difficult to do as a walk-through because of the random
locations players land in when dropped into the Catacombs. The questor
will take a fair amount of damage because the revenants randomly 
attack, and the mobs randomly block exits (breakable blocks).

Files Involved:
Cairn      /d/Avenir/common/dead/hill/cairn.c
Banshee    /d/Avenir/common/dead/mon/banshee.c
Gate room  /d/Avenir/common/dead/catacombs/crypt_entr.c
Chatelaine /d/Avenir/common/dead/mon/chatelaine.cairn
Sybarun coin /d/Avenir/common/obj/syb_coin.c