Date:       July 16, 2017
Subject:    Initial Review of Spells

Overall Comments
----------------
- Would like to see more scaling of spell effects based on the caster's
  skills and stats. Most of the effects are basically 100% effective
  once the spell has been cast.
- Headers for most spells need to be adjusted. They are mostly copies
  of the original files, with sometimes incorrect comments about who
  authored the spell.
- Overall combat aid calculations need to be worked on. Will need to
  have a deeper conversation as some of them (like the stoneskin aid)
  can actually have an effect on the structure and build of the guild.
- Rotating at-will spells actually means that their aid will overlap.
  That means that the calculations will need to be adjusted. It's
  also why it's the most effective setup because it basically is
  granting additional aid.
- query_spell_can_be_learned should probably check if they are a guild
  member or not.
- In general, it wasn't immediately obvious how the overall limits of
  combat aid were handled. There were a few cases where spells were
  restricted (can't cast offensive if defensive was active).
- Most spells used the layman terms instead of the spell word. Eg.
  you can't cast magic missile instead of arcanisvaes. Is that the
  intention?

Individual Spell Comments
-------------------------
Spell(s): magic missile, fire dart, acid arrow, prismatic spray
Comments: the actual elements that are used by the spell can affect how
          others can defend against them. do the descriptions both for
          the caster as well as the target help them to figure this
          out? Certain elements like air for magic missile have very
          few resistance objects out there.

Spell(s): blink
Comments: Even though technically not a combat aid ability, we will
          need to discuss whether this spell needs to be taxed
          differently, as Calians and Knights do pay for this ability
          separately.

Spell(s): curse
Comments: "Petros" didn't create the illfortunate spell, as the comments
          seem to indicate. The base spell has its own set of problems,
          which need to be addressed first. It's also not been well
          tested.
          Currently, it uses a percentage miss setting, which doesn't
          translate automatically to combat aid. At the current level
          of 10% miss, it's actually only doing 11% combat aid. At 15%
          miss (which I think is your intention), that translates to
          17% combat aid.

Spell(s): dazzle
Comments: Pretty powerful PvP utility spell, even though it technically
          doesn't have any combat aid. Will need to be taxed.

Spell(s): scare
Comments: Powerful PvP utility spell, even though it technically doesn't
          have any combat aid. Will need to be taxed.
          Not sure how I feel about adding panic and fatigue together in
          the same spell. Would prefer to make it a generic drain spell
          that does this in a configurable base spell. Need to discuss
          further.

Spell(s): protect_fear
Comments: Is using resistance as the base spell the most appropriate? It
          doesn't appear to be doing anything other than adding a prop.
          It looks like you need a separate base spell for this? If so,
          let's do that instead.

Spell(s): stoneskin
Comments: 120% combat aid maintained by a spell actually exceeds the amounts
          granted to an OCC guild. A magic guild is capable of bursting
          beyond the normal limits, but it can't have a maintained state
          in the "burst" range. We will need to discuss further on how this
          restriction affects the overall guild design.
          I like the checks for overlapping effects, but instead of checking
          props, I prefer that we look for the objects instead. There are
          certain spells where you do this, but this is not one of them.

Spell(s): magic_shield
Comments: Message says "stoneskin" for "You can only cast stoneskin on
          yourself". _sohm_blur_effect check says "Your magic shield spell
          interferes with your ability to cast the magic shield spell" Seems
          to be wrong and redundant?
          Same comment as stoneskin on checking for the effect object rather
          than the prop.

Spell(s): dominate
Comments: no comments

Spell(s): reflect_damage
Comments: Tax documents state 60%, but the combat aid is set to 100%.
          Comments in the spell also say 80% and 60% separately. I see the
          likelihood has been set to 60% and that's probably the point of
          confusion. The spell automatically takes the likelihood into
          account in increasing the spell damage. Just set the combat aid
          to what you want.

Spell(s): gloom
Comments: Would like to make this a base spell instead, and will need addl
          testing on it. The darkness cloud is fun, but the darkness will
          grant a good amount of caid. Will need to tax accordingly.

Spell(s): truesight
Comments: Combining see in darkness, with see invis, with awareness skill
          gain. It's actually three spells in one. Will need to discuss
          how we can a) make it a base spell that can be configured and b)
          how we will tax this or allow this. Cotillion is especially not
          a fan of spells that combine multiple effects.

Spell(s): protect_acid, protect_cold, protect_fire, protect_lightning,
          protect_poison
Comments: No Comments

Spell(s): blur
Comments: blur_obj.c overrides things like setup_spell_effect when it
          doesn't need to. Any reason you don't just have hook functions
          here?

Spell(s): flame lance, psychic blast, lightning bolt, ice strike
Comments: Understand that increasing the casting time by 3x gives 3x the
          damage when it actually strikes. It does come at a cost of
          potentially failing during that time, during whith all aid is
          then lost. Also, normal attacks and other specials (laymans)
          cannot be used during a casting time. This is one we'll have
          to test to understand the impact of more.

Spell(s): invisibility
Comments: required parameter is that it's cast while peaceful, but it
          may be good to include it in the spell anyway to make it more
          clear.
          Should not use your own invisibility_sh. Use the one in the
          base spell or help me understand why you needed to create your
          own.

