Eldoral in General.

Eldoral is a region that's largely lost and forgotten to
scholars, historians, and travellers. It is a place of
mystery, where players are intentionally left wondering
'where did that come from' in a number of places.

GEOGRAPHY:
Eldoral is a large region, comprising a mist-enshrouded
valley in the mountains northeast of Gelan (as the crow
flies). It can only be reached by a small trail located
in the satyr forest on the east side of the mountain
range. Once inside the valley, much of it is dominated
by Eldoral Lake, within which sits Eldoral Isle.

The island itself is largely forested, except for the 
ravine at the north end, in which the forest has died or
is dying. In the center of the island stand the ruins of
Castle Chimera. The rise and fall of Castle Chimera predates
the Dim Time by several hundred years.

On the south side of the lake (where players approach from),
the forest is littered with ruins whose origins are not
mentioned anywhere except here. It was nothing more than a
small village that was abandoned and left to rot over time.

HISTORY:
Castle Chimera was built not as a fortress to keep invaders
out, but as a prison to keep a monster in. Though it's
own origins are unknown, this beast (now seen in the Eye of
the Beast Quest, the fourth of the Eldoral quests) was
captured by a man named Galyn, who was a great warrior. This
is purely relatively speaking, as at the time there was no
great demand for warriors. Therefore, a 'great' warrior was
pretty much anyone who could kill someone else without a lot
of effort.

He discovered this remote lake island, and placed the beast
within a ravine in the northern parts of it. Then he built a
great castle in the heart of the island to ensure none could
ever free the beast, or the beast could free itself. The 
extra caution was required because of the beast's odd ability
to control the minds of people, given enough time.

Galyn became a local hero (local within the valley, anyway,
nobody outside of it would have recognized his name even at
the height of his 'reign'), and the citizens of the small
village on the south shore of the lake somehow decided he
was part Chimera. Galyn wasn't one for modesty, so went along
with the rumours happily enough, even making the chimera a
recurring theme in his fortress, which he then named Castle
Chimera. He even attracted the interest of a young dragon
named Firestorm who stumbled into the valley quite by
accident, and became intrigued by the thought of a man who
had the spirit of a Chimera. Soon he swore an oath to defend
the castle and keep the beast in its place, and took up
residence in a grotto below.

In only a few short years, however, the mind control of the
beast took began to effect some of those who dwelt within the
castle. A plot was hatched, that Galyn be killed, and in the
confusion a large detatchment of his guard would descend into
the caverns to the ravine, and free the beast. Galyn was soon
stabbed in the back by Lendin, his seer and advisor, who fled
the island, but drowned in the lake in his escape. With his
dying gasp, a moment of clarity came to the seer, and he
cursed those within the island unintentionally, for he did
not know that the very land around him pulsed with it's own
magic. As a result, the guards who sought to free the beast
became trapped in the caverns as undead, and remain there to this
day, now guarding the way against any who would approach the
beast.

The ghost of Galyn to this day haunts his throne room, and of
Lendin, he still walks his tower, but does not know that he is
dead, and walks through time having no memory of what happened.
Another effect of the curse, is that a magical chain sprung into
being, and imprisoned Firestorm in his grotto as he slept. While
he yearns for freedom, he cannot break the chain, and even if it
is broken, he cannot stay away for more than a little while at a
time. And the chain always 'reforms' soon after.

Only a few years ago, a calian found the region quite by accident,
and came across Firestorm while exploring. On impulse, both 
engaged in mortal combat, and Firestorm emerged the obvious
victor. But as the blood of the calian flowed down Firestorm's
throat, he suddenly saw into the heart of the dead warrior,
and realized his intentions were noble. As a result, Firestorm
vowed on that day he would show tribute to that calian, and
atone for his death, by aiding any Calians that he might by
granting them part of his essense, which would allow them a
might in battle they could never attain otherwise.

And so, Eldoral has waited, in silence, for visits from the realm
of mortals, until this day.