Islands
A story about the Islands of Calia
Unknown
A History of the Islands
Years ago, after the Great Battle, one of Kroug's most dangerous
renegade Generals known as Steerax led his defeated force to the 
west coast of Calia, a few leagues southwest of Gelan. There his 
well-armed soldiers entered the village of Greensea, where they 
plundered supplies and slew many of the peaceful locals. In their 
hastily appropriated accomodation, they planned an assault on the 
twin coastal islands, home of the last Worshippers of the Elementals, 
our founders. In those days the islands were visible from much of
the western coastline of Calia, and indeed Greensea was sometimes 
visited by the islanders. Positioned between islands was a great 
smoking volcano known as Mount Pyros, which stood like a fearful 
sentinel. 

Stealing the boats of the local fishermen, the soldiers rowed out 
to sea and landed their force on the southern island, Menisca. There 
they hoped to quickly conquer the great walled city of the island 
and use it as a new headquarters. 
The battle was short and bloody. Steerax's troops, who were fast 
spiralling out of control in the absence of their true leader, 
burned and looted the great city, leaving very little intact.  
Steerax was forced to behead many of his most over-zealous krougs
in an attempt to restore some kind of order. As fresh plans were 
being made to row to the northern island of Conchoida, the elements
arose in defence of the islands. It seems that the Elementals, as 
patrons of the islanders, had decided once and for all to take 
their folk out of harm's way. Mount Pyros erupted, and in a great   
earthquake, the foundations of the islands crumbled and they sank 
beneath the surface in a great turbulence. Gigantic waves rolled 
against the coast and battered the rocks, and it is said that the 
noise of the eruption could be heard as far away as Mount Kyrus.  
None of folk who were present on the islands on that day have ever 
been seen again, whether kroug, or islander, or the vile Steerax.. 
at least as they were. There have been many sightings of strange 
merfolk, some of divine beauty and some of unspeakable hideousness, 
ever since.

Some of the islanders were however on the coast at the time of 
the eruption. There, near to the village of Greensea, they founded 
the temple of the Elementals, which keeps alive the names of the 
ancient Powers on the mainland of Calia. 

