00:16 Cotillion tells you: I'm not at all fond of it or the other thing in
the game that does it
You tell Cotillion: the /d/Terel/silver_new/weapon/flamberge.c Its indented
00:16 Cotillion tells you: yeah, that one is better :)
You tell Cotillion: is that your personal feelings towards the special ability
or is it backed by some sort of rule someplace?
00:17 Cotillion tells you: Likely to become a rule.
You tell Cotillion: Well, we'll leave it in until theres something in writing.
00:17 Cotillion tells you: Hmm, sorry. That's not how it works.
You tell Cotillion: I knew this would happen
[Remeko revived from linkdeath (68-116-9-249.dhcp.knwk.wa.charter.com)]
You tell Cotillion: who's monitoring your work Cotillion?
00:18 Cotillion tells you: What would happen? Yes, we have an AoB again.
00:19 Cotillion tells you: Tintin and Mrpr.                                              
You tell Cotillion: really..                                                             
00:19 Cotillion tells you: Ok, let's hear it. What are you upset with?                   
You tell Cotillion: i'm wary about you stifling anything new or creative.                
00:19 Cotillion tells you: You can't honestly think that an item should be
able to force other player to forget people they know.                                   
You tell Cotillion: I'm not a big fan of the ability thats true.                         
00:20 Cotillion tells you: I'm not sure where you got the idea that I don't
like new and creative things?                                                            
You tell Cotillion: However, I'm concerned that a single individual such as
yourself has total veto power over anything in the game that doesn't fit his
personal bias.                                                                           
You tell Cotillion: Balance should be documented. We followed man weapon, you
should stick to those guidelines or make an effort to modify the documentation.          
You tell Cotillion: otherwise, 'balance' is just a word to control how you want
things created.
You tell Cotillion: Okay, i'll be curious to see how other ideas we come up
with are stifled.

