	CARAVAN DEFENCE

Defines: nothing yet
Programmed: Udana (and possibly Pasqua)
Problem:  Defend the caravan. The caravan is travelling through the road, the
	bandits attack it few times in small groups (capable of killing one
	or two guards) and in large group with good leader once. On the big
	attack they also set a trap on the road (a log crossing the road). 
	The quest is considered solved when the caravan reaches its
	destination (north gate of calathin or cornerstone depending on its
	direction). The bandits want attack the caravan unless there is a
	player involved.
Solution: Go with the caravan through the forest and kill bandits attacking
	it. The less guards will die in small attacks the more will be there
	on the main one.
Skills: Combat skills and stats for fighting. Average strength for moving the
	log, so the caravan can go pass the trap.
Risks:  Death during the attacks. The leader will be equpied with those nasty
	arrows I mentioned before.
XP-Scale: The quest will take some amount of time, and will be quite dangerous. 
	I suggest fair reward for it.
Remark:   The quests has two sides - see below.


	CARAVAN ATTACK

Defines: nothing yet
Programmed: Udana (and possibly Pasqua)
Problem: Attack the caravan (see above). Bandits will attack with player only
	at one spot (the location with log blocking the road), but he's free 
	to attack caravan as many times as he likes before it. The quest is
	considered solved if the caravan doesn't goes past the log room.
Solution: Kill all the caravan members in the log room without leaving the 
	log unprotected (if neither player nor living bandit is in the room
	caravan guards will move the log). Optionally player can weaken caravan
	before it reaches the trap.
Skills: Combat skills and stats for fighting.
Risks: 	Death during the fight, caravan guards has no powerfull leader though.
XP-Scale: Simillar to one above.
Remark: Both sides can be attempted at the same time. Moving the log becomes a
	competetive task then.


	BANDIT TREASURE ROOM

Defines: nothing yet
Programmed: Udana (it's changed quest I have planned for Krynn)
Problem: Gain access to the treasure room of bandit group in the silver forest. 
	The room with an entrance is randomly placed in the forest, to open the 
	secret door player must collect a password and an ecryption code.
	
	- The password is in possession on bandit leader (the same one that 
	appears in good align version of caravan quest), he can be found on the
	road during the caravan defence quest, or in bandit hideout 
	(to be coded soon)
	
	- The encryption code is scraped on a rock in other location in the forest.

	Player will be hinted on where too look for both pieces, and about the
	encryption method (Cesar encryption) but he has to decode the password
	himself.
Solution: Kill the bandit lord, find the rock with the key, decrypt the passowrd,
	utter it in the treasure hold entrance room, enter.
Skills: Fighting skills and stats for defeating the lord and his minions defending
	him.
Risks:	Death during the fight with the lord, frustration from not beeing able to
	decode the passowrd. ;)
XP-Scale: No only player have to defeat a powerfull enemy but also solve a puzzle,
	reward should be remarkable.
Remark: If you need any further information on decryption method, drop me a mail.
	