   
  "The Fire and the Folk"

     as told to the itinerant poet
              Cecydia
     by the oldest beside the Fire


  In the beginning, all the world
  was covered in the great ash forest,
  the Askverold, that grew without end.
  Among the writhing and striving
  of roots and trunks, branches and
  leaves, there multiplied the wild
  things, as innocent of thought as
  the very trees themselves. But as
  creation grew dense, ever pushing
  upon itself, so the surface of the
  world was rent by destruction's maw,
  the yawning abyss, the Mikillgap.

  Mindless, creation without end in
  the Askverold, met destruction 
  without end in the endless airy
  deeps of the Mikillgap. 

  Long ages passed beyond counting,
  for there were none to count them. 
  Then change came, from above; a
  bolt of lightning fell upon a 
  tree in the forest and set it
  aflame.

  The wild things pressed about the
  burning tree there, saw creation
  and destruction together for the
  first time; they inspired the smoke
  of their union and were inspired.
  Thence tending the fire they came
  to know; to know the comforts and
  terrors brought about by conscious
  thought and conscious action.

  Two ravens flew down from above,
  and a raven-dark figure emerged
  from below; to visit by the fire
  and so became known to the folk
  of the fire in the ash forest
  by the abyss.

  The cawing of the ravens, of sights
  unseen, awoke in the folk the desire
  to make their way in creation -- to
  venture beyond the bounds of root and
  trunk and branch pressing all about.

  The dark figure wielded a long keen
  blade to cut the wood of the forest
  so that paths could be taken, and
  that the fire in its midst might
  endure. The Woodsman trimmed the
  outgrowth in form and fate of the
  folk also, as was his due.
  
  With the coming of the Fire and the
  Ravens and the Woodsman, a calm
  settled across the world. The Askverold
  ceased to shift; replaced by field and
  fold and lesser woods and works. Once
  girdling the world in endless airy deeps,
  the Mikillgap found its bottom after
  all; thence it was filled by river and
  rain, widening into seas and oceans.
  
  The folk spread all throughout the
  world bearing fire before them; creating
  and destroying through their actions
  even as they themselves were created and
  destroyed anew; changed in ways beyond
  their capacity for forethought.

  By the Litillgap, last empty crack of
  the Mikillgap, in the Askelund, last
  remnant grove of the Askverold; there
  are folk who return at the dawn of
  every new Age to tend the Fire on behalf
  of all in remembrance of the Covenant
  with the Ravens and the Woodsman. They
  count the end of each Age from the last
  tree of the Askelund felled and burnt,
  ere the whole world is remade and the
  Fire is lit again.
   
  Over the crackle of flames on firewood,
  and the chopping reports of the Woodsman,
  the wise pay heed to the Ravens two. Of
  creation and the Creator, they are said
  to crow. For to gain his favour is to be
  remade with the world as though a mighty
  ash growing far from the abyss of old.

  The oldest of the wise is said to dwell 
  now with the Ravens in the grove, having
  long since grown to suffer not the blows
  of the Woodsman. She welcomes younglings
  bearing the fire of the folk to her side.

