Guild Area
==========

The settings would be mountain range, most likely of volcanic origin,
with one or a few volcanos maybe still active. Steep cliffs and deep
valleys, maybe with a stream or two down in them, and rope bridges
and narrow walkways throughout where dropping items would make them
down into the valley, never to be recovered, or maybe carried
downstream and washed ashore somewhere near Sparkle Bridge.

 [The mountains rise high above the Sparkle Valley, with forest at
  their sides quickly giving way to mostly rocky slopes and steep
  cliffs, with snow caps at the highest peaks. Greenery is sparse,
  with a few withered trees clinging for life, roots searching for
  cracks in stone. The mountains are unforgiving to softness ...

  It is, however, not a place devoid of natural beauty. Far from it.
  When spring comes and the snow begins to melt, quick streams of
  cold water run down the steep slopes in cascades of tiny waterfalls.
  Mountain goats venture from lower down in the valley to seek the
  first traces of grass. The deep blue water of a rare mountain lake
  near the peaks glitters with reflection of white clouds ...

  It is known in the Sparkle Valley that monks live up in the
  mountains, but few really travel there to meet them. There is
  nothing of value in the mountains, which is exactly why monks
  settled there in their search for a secluded home. They are not
  unfriendly to visitors though. The walkways and bridges are kept
  in perfect order, and when somebody does reach the monastery, they
  are always welcomed and treated kindly.]

   <How about having monks repairing the rope bridges ? Either NPCs
    could do it, something like Regliak does now in the monastery, or
    monks could have that as a duty, tightening ropes and sometimes
    maybe replacing a plank with a new one from a stack kept in the
    monastery. If neglected, the rope bridges would deteriorate to a
    point where they would cease to function as a regular room exit,
    and one would have to "shimmy along a rope" or "jump over hole"
    to cross them. This would not make the roads inaccessible, just
    more tiring and demanding to traverse.>

Somewhere within these mountains, about one third of the way in but
still visible from the Sparkle Valley, our current monastery halls
would be situated near top of some mountain peak. We could basically
port everything as is, with no change.

 [Ever saw those photos where the sun sets over a mountain range, red
  in color, and outlining a silhouette of a temple built near the
  mountaintop ? Well, you got the picture then :) Adding a touch of
  class, the outline of the temple building could remind one of a
  dragon when viewed from the right spot, or the huge dragon statue
  we have in our basement could look like a live dragon perched on
  the mountain from certain angle ...]

Also within the mountains, but much more difficult to access and
practically a secret, would be old dwellings of dragons. This would
be an ancient underground city, somewhere inside the mountains, maybe
a volcano that the dragons exploited for heat. The architecture of
the city is unclear, probably large system of caves with some set
apart for sleeping.

 [Even more than monks, dragons wanted to be left alone by humans who
  would just come hunt them. Which is why their city is very well
  hidden, in the higher parts of the mountains that are difficult to
  access. Dragons used to fly to and from the mountains, hence they
  picked a peak that is somewhat apart and above the others and thus
  allows easy access from the air. All that would be seen from normal
  vantage points is a peak shrouded in clouds, with jagged top and
  maybe gaping holes of unclear origin near it.]

The city would be abandoned, and maybe partially destroyed by lava
from the volcano. The reason why dragons left would be the volcano
itself. While the dragons could use the Tongue of Making to tame the
volcano, they decided not to do it and leave the city instead. In
fact, they used the True Names before, in their Gontish dwellings,
and the side effects of their bending the natural forces resulted in
the terrible cataclysm that erased Re Albi. They did not want to
repeat their past mistake.

The dragon city would be not only extremely difficult to find and get
into, it would also appear dull and uninteresting to a casual
observer. A few rooms mostly empty of furniture, partially damaged by
lava, dust everywhere. Ruins with no obvious purpose. The description
of the rooms would change, however, depending on how advanced a monk
walks them. The more advanced a monk, the more obvious the signs of
the previous dragon presence would become. For a most senior monk,
the place would glitter with past glory and the spirit of dragons
would be felt in many places.

 [On a more mundane level, part of the difference a monk would
  see could be recognizing the shape of the corridors as fitting the
  huge bulks of dragons, seeing scratch marks on the cliff edges
  where dragons used to take off when leaving their dwellings,
  smelling a subtle difference between the fire of the volcano and
  the burn marks on the walls that were made by dragon fire ...

  To an uniniated mortal, the place would be maybe even spooky, with
  the feeling of loss and destruction permeating the air, and traces
  of unseen presence felt in some places (we could make the story of
  the dragon departure from the caves a heroic and narrow one, with
  some of the dragons killed by the raging volcano as they tried in
  vain to protect their dwelling (or allow their kin to escape, but
  that might be stretching it too hoolywoodish :)).

  The city itself would be a vast cave where the dragons lived
  communaly, Probably with benches or whatever the beasts used for
  resting throughout the day, and secluded caves where the dragons
  would sleep, maybe with depressions in the floor for where they
  did. Also numerous would be exits opening into the air over the
  mountains, and maybe a few platforms on mountaintops reachable
  through those exits where the dragons would rest in the sun.]
