Maiko takes out a baking try and a knife, as he begins preparing the roasted chicken.
Maiko peels the chicken skilfully and puts it into the baking tray.
Maiko adds salt and herbs into the baking tray.
Maiko puts the baking tray into the owen.
Maiko takes out a smaller dish.
Maiko disappears for a while behind the counter and returns with a basket of potatoes.
Maiko quickly peels the potatoes and puts them in the smaller dish.
Maiko adds water to the smaller dish and puts the smaller dish on the stove.
Maiko watches the potatoes in the smaller dish boil.
Maiko watches the chicken in the baking tray roast.
Maiko carefully takes the baking tray from the owen.
Maiko reaches into a shelf and pulls a plate out.
Maiko gets the chicken from the baking tray and puts it on the plate.
Maiko gets the potatoes from the smaller dish and puts them on the plate.
Maiko serves you the roasted chicken.

Maiko takes out a large baking tray, as he begins preparing the fruitcake.
Maiko disappears for a while behind the counter and returns with flour and eggs.
Maiko takes out a large bowl.
Maiko puts the flour and the eggs into the large bowl.
Maiko mixes the flour and the eggs in the large bowl.
Maiko kneads the pastry in the large bowl.
Maiko puts the pastry from the large bowl onto the large baking tray.
Maiko reaches under the counter for a mixture of fruits.
Maiko puts the mixture of fruits onto the large baking tray.
Maiko puts the large baking tray into the owen.
Maiko watches the pastry in the large baking tray bake.
Maiko gingerly takes the large baking tray from the owen.
Maiko reaches into a shelf and pulls a plate out.
Maiko gets the fruitcake from the large baking tray and puts it on the plate.
Maiko serves you the fruitcake.

---

Materials:
  probably specified individually

Containers:
  small dish, smaller dish, medium dish, larger dish, large dish
  baking tray, large baking tray
  small bowl, bowl, large bowl
  small plate, plate, large plate
  stove, owen

Instruments:
  knife, spoon

Actions:
  take out of somewhere
  put material in container
  move material from container to container
  peel
  mash
  shred
  bake in owen
  cook on stove
  boil on stove
  heat up owen (Mzenska)
  heat up stove (Mzenska)

