Final Gypsy Camp Quest

    After you recieve the quest from Tecla, the ring sets the quest props in you.
The player then needs to travel to the haunted house and discover the throne.  
In order to get to the throne you need to deal with the black rods which are snakes.
Using the stones and boxes in the haunted house you can create a powder that can
be used on the snake to disable them.(I think we should change that part, doesn't
exactly make sense). Once the snakes are dealt with the player can raise the throne.
Sitting on the throne he will get a vision showing him the death of the King.
And a word missing some letters, which is Avenchirs. The player then has to go
to the Mansion and find the lattice room as depicted in the vision. There he will
find a scroll above the lattice in the chimney. The scroll is the confession of 
the Avenchir who killed the King, the fortune teller told him to place the 
confession where the act took place, it also tells where the King has been buried.
The player then goes to the dig up the grave, this is where it gets muddled. The
key to open the coffin is not in the game, and it looks like your suppose to enter
the coffin and you will then become a ghost. The player then returns to the haunted
house and he'll be able to see the spectre, the spectre will tell him to go find his
sceptre, and he can be released from his despair. He says it's in the place where the
act took place. The player then goes back to the lattice room, and since the player
is a ghost can float down through the lattice. Down there if he searches the water
he'll find an octupus(I think we should shit can this, cause for one, as a ghost you
can't kill it and it blocks you from getting the sceptre). When the octupus is gone
you can search a few times and find the sceptre. Taking the sceptre back to the 
spectre, the player must then <hail king with sceptre> and that will release them
both from their ethereal forms. He thanks the player and the quest is over. He gives
the player a sword it looks like as well.

Not working that I know of:
Becoming a ghost at the coffin.
The coffin itself.
hailing the King at the end.
Searching for the sceptre.(octupus blocking)
Receiving the quest from Tecla. 

