This is the help file for the usage of the terradder. With this,
you will be able to understand where to add each feature to the
environment. It is IMPORTANT that you place these items only when
they are actually present in the room you are in, not off in the distance
somewhere. Eg. add 'mountain' when 'You are walking through mountains...',
but not when 'You can see mountains in the distance...'.

Terrain types and usage.
------------------------
plain - areas of the following types: plain, meadow, prairie, savannah
      - generally expansive and wild grassland areas, flat.

moor - As opposed to a plain, this is an area of flatness, but not populated
       by grasses, but rather low-lying herbs and mosses (due to the
       soil structure, typically).

forest - large expansive forests of most types, including especially wild
         areas. Do not include forests that have been domesticated, nor
         jungles or thickets. (these are explained below.)

thicket - A semi-forested area, without large trees, but where movement
          is difficult since there are many young trees in the way,
          growing close together.

jungle - Tropical forests.

bush - domesticated forests, woodlots.

mountain - craggy, rocky, mountains. Hills are a separate category.

hill - Hilly terrain, whether it be highlands, foothills of mountains,
       or rolling hills.

cliff - A cliff, embankment, ridge. A rock face.

desert - sandy, isolated, and with little life. This one is self-
         explanatory. No real rocky features.

badlands - This is an area with outstanding rock structures, typically
           found near plains and deserts. By outstanding rock structures,
           it is meant that there are towers and monoliths of rock,
           interspersed with open flat areas.

swamp - These are forested wetlands, or previously forested wetlands
        with dead trees. True swamps, mangrove forests and areas flooded
        by beaver dams all fit within this category.

wetland - As opposed to a swamp, this includes marshes and bogs, areas
          which are not entirely water, but allow passage by walking
          through them (with difficulty). The difference here is that
          the area doesn't have trees.

glacier - This is a land body composed of ice and compacted snow.

riverbank - The land edge of a river.

beach - The land edge of a sea or lake, if sandy.

coast - The land edge of a sea or ocean (saltwater body), if rocky.

lakeshore - The land edge of a lake, if rocky.

sea - The ocean or sea. Large salt water bodies.

river - A large body of fresh water, flowing typically.

lake - A large body of standing fresh water.

pond - A small body of standing fresh water. Includes pools.

stream - A small body of flowing fresh water.

waterfall - A body of water that is descending from a height.

in ship - Rooms inside a ship. Don't include the deck!

natural cave - A naturally formed cave, typically with stalagmites
               and stalactites.

crypt - A place where the dead are buried or entombed.

house - A living place/residence.

hall - A hallway.

sewer - Usually underground constructed tunnels where waste flows.

constructed cave - A cave that has been built, this is also typically
                   used for the rooms within a constructed cave, rather
                   than the tunnels themselves.

tunnel - The tunnels of a constructed cave, a natural cave, or some
         place that you have to dig.

inside ruins - These are ruins that occur inside, ruins being an area
               that once had buildings, which have now fallen into disrepair.

littered - A room with items in it that are in disarray.

snow - A room with snow.

ice - A room with ice.

mud - A room with mud.

fog - A room with fog or mist.

leaf litter - A room with leaf litter.

lava - A room with lava.

water well - The room contains a well.

village - A village room.

city - A room in a city.

street - A street, typically a more open area than an alley.

alley - An alley is usually a shadowy street, rarely frequented.

fortress - A room in a fortress, keep, or castle.

outside ruins - Ruins that occur outside in the open air. An abandoned
                fortress for example.

path - A poorly maintained walkway, or one that is 'informal'. Also 
       includes animal trails.

road - A maintained walkway, that sees much traffic.

bridge - A construction used to cross something that couldn't otherwise
         be crossed.

garden - A place where someone is actively growing food or herbs, typically
         for personal use.

field - A larger area used for agricultural purposes to grow food or herbs,
        possibly for commercial use.

pier - A place where ships land!

