                     Mercenary Adaptation Skill
                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Adaptation - the art of tailoring ones abilities to suit the needs of
the hour - is the cornerstone of any reliable Mercenary's arsenal.
Mercenaries pride themselves on a well-rounded skillset that gives
them the opportunity to function fully in whatever capacity the current
cause they are hired to serve dictates. It is for this reason that
Mercenaries do not specialize in the mastery of any given skill in
combat. They would rather have a good general grasp of *ALL* combat
tactics so that they can then choose the ones they need to focus on
with the one and only skill they do master - that of adaptation.

Soon after Maligant departed camp, the Mercenary Guild aquired the
services of Mellok, who had served for many years in the Adventurer
Guild in Sparkle, and who had himself trained with masters of every
skill throughout the land. Mellok claimed that he would be able to
give training in the art of adaptation to the Mercenary Guild, and
that he would be glad to come and work with them, having grown weary
of his age-old post in Sparkle.

Thus it is that Mellok will both train Mercenaries in the art of
adaptation, and will also share with them his knowledge of where
to find the true master of any single skill. Only by travelling to
these master trainers can a Mercenary complete their training
of adaptation for a given skill. Mercenaries must <ask> Mellok
about any skill for which they wish to complete their training,
and then follow his instructions.

In training the actual adaptation skill, Mercenaries get a single
skillpoint added to their allocation pool for each level they have
trained. Mercenaries begin with the potential to train adaptation
only to craftsman levels, which gives them a healthy, but limited
amount of skillpoints to allocate at first. To truly master the
art of adaptation, a Mercenary must take on the guru quest.

The guru quest for the Adaptation skill exists in the form of the
monumental task of finding and training with every single skillmaster
in the realm. This has nothing to do with combat, guildstat, or any
other external measure of prowess. Rather, the simple rule is that
the more trainers you train with, the better you get at adaptation.
Each new trainer you find and learn from increases the level you can
train the adaptation skill in the Mercenary Guildhall, which in turn
increases the number of allocation points you receive to boost your
skills. By the time you have found and learned from all the trainers
in the land, you will be able to raise adaptation skill to superior
guru, and receive a vast arsenal of skillpoints to distribute!

Once allocation points have been used toward a given adaptation, they 
are no longer available for use in other skill areas. By typing <adapt>
you will get a list of commands useful for managing your adaptation
skill. One of these is the <adapt list> which gives you comprehensive
knowledge of all skills, which ones you have learned to adapt thus
far, how many points you have allocated to specific skills, and 
information about how many allocation points you have remaining.

If you have no more allocation points remaining, you will need to
first <adapt clear> certain skill allocations so free up points for
new adaptation. Though it costs time and money travelling to the
various skill masters to re-spec your allocations, there is no
limit to the number of times a Mercenary may shift their focus for
skill adaptation.

In summary, to use adaptation you must:

    1. Train the adaptation skill with Mellok at the Guildhall.
    2. Ask Mellok about an individual skill you wish to adapt.
    3. Find the trainer Mellok tells you about for that skill.
    4. Type: <adapt [skillname]> in the presence of that trainer.
    5. Follow the instructions of the trainer.

The potentials for a Mercenary who has done the guru quest are many!
Some may choose to emphasize skills which strengthen their thief
abilities - perhaps superior guru in pickpocket. Some may choose to
emphasize combat abilities - perhaps superior guru in three or more
combat skills simultaneously. Some may try odd combinations that have
previously been unexplored by players in the realms. In the end, it
is up to you to discover for yourself that, yes indeed ...

It's good to be a Mercenary!
