Esteemed Lieges,

The Free Mercenary Guild is very soon to complete its beta test, and
open for the full playerbase. I wanted to inform you that the guild has
a guru quest which requires a Mercenary to seek out and train with
npcs who are reknown for their mastery throughout the donut.

The way I accomplished this was to develop scripts which are fed to
the npcs using command(), allowing the npcs to interact with the
Mercenaries without actually changing any code in the npcs themselves.
The code is all housed centrally in the guild master object.

To preserve the nature of the various npcs, I set up three archetypes
for the scripts so that the alignment or personalities of the npcs 
would accurately represent who they are. The archetypes are attitudes
of "normal", "kind", and "cruel" personalities. In this way, we do not
have a Morgul Mage npc who smiles and offers pleasantries when Mercs
train with them, but instead insults and berates the Merc as befits
a servant of Sauron. Likewise, we don't have someone who is kind and
warmhearted acting aloof or stoic when training the Merc.

Here follows a list by domain of the npcs who are designated as
Master trainers, the skill they represent mastery in, and the
attitude I designated for them.

    AVENIR:
        Cyrus (knife skill) - normal attitude
        Erinys (conjuration spells skill) - normal attitude
        Maiden (water spells skill) - normal attitude
        Nemur (abjuration spells skill) - normal attitude
        Ry'nal (illusion spells skill) - normal attitude
    CALIA:
        Atlas (polearm skill) - normal attitude
        Azealia (location sense) - normal attitude
        Gamalus (spellcract skill) - kind attitude
        Hylar (divination spells skill) - normal attitude
        Raspatoon (alchemy skill) - normal attitude
       +Sehis (life spells) - kind attitude
    CIRATH:
        Brutus (axe skill) - normal attitude
    EARTHSEA:
        Ashel (acrobat skill) - kind attitude
        Aunty (enchantment spells skill) - kind attitude
        Johanna (herbalism skill) - kind attitude
        Pelle (appraise object skill) - kind attitude
    EMERALD:
        Hendi (trading skill) - normal attitude
    GONDOR:
        Elfhelm (javelin skill) - normal attitude
        Fredor (find and remove traps skill) - normal attitude
        Athir (death spells skill) - cruel attitude
    KALAD:
        Brutakis (riding skill) - cruel attitude
        Penance (backstab skill) - normal attitude
    KHALAKHOR:
        Drelkhorn (unarmed combat skill) - kind attitude
        George (swim skill) - kind attitude
        Noigo (tracking skill) - normal attitude
    KRYNN:
       *Darryn (block skill) - normal attitude
        Deggart (language skill) - normal attitude
        Dougan (club skill) - normal attitude
        Gakhan (knife skill) - cruel attitude
        Gunthar (mounted combat) - normal attitude
        Jaine (defence skill) - normal attitude
        Jasmine (open lock skill) - kind attitude
        Laran (air spells skill) - kind attitude
        Merldon (pick pocket) - kind attitude
        Qualthas (missile skill) - normal attitude
        Quillean (hide skill) - normal attitude
        Tarshir (awareness) - normal attitude
        Thima (earth spells) - kind attitude
        Thorr-kan (fire spells skill) - cruel attitude
        Verminaard (parry skill) - cruel attitude
        Viridian (sword skill) - kind attitude
    SHIRE:
        Aradan (sneak skill) - normal attitude
        Keleren (animal handling skill) - normal attitude
        Mimo (climb skill) - kind attitude
        Sharaburz (transmutation spells skill) - cruel attitude
    SPARKLE:
        Regliak (blindfighting skill) - normal attitude
        Rommik (appraise value skill) - normal attitude
    TEREL:
        Arlenn (two-handed combat skill) - normal attitude
        Mergula (appraise enemy skill) - attitude normal
        Rommenus (hunting) - normal attitude

  * Block is not currently available for training for Mercs.
  + Sehis has unique scripts, since he has no tongue.

If you have any questions or concerns about these npcs being used as
part of the Mercenary Guru quest, please mail me.

Thanks!
G.
