Crafthalls of Khalakhor

The crafthalls are a 'complimentary' guild for the Clans of Khalakhor.
The crafthalls exist in two forms, occupational and layman, and their
guildhalls will all be located in various cities/villages scattered
around the domain.

LAYMAN:
------
The layman crafthalls are their most basic form. They will be a place
where anyone can join for some rudimentry skills and abilities in the
related craft. There are no alignment restrictions, no race restrictions,
and no entrance requirements of any kind to be met. All a player ever
has to do is find the crafthall and type 'join'. If they can't manage
that, they probably shouldn't be playing *grin*. Players who join a
crafthall are referred to as craftsmen, and recieve appropriate titles
and emotes, as well as the advantages described below:

  Adventuring-related crafthalls:
  * Fighters: A fairly simple fighter's guild with no special skills,
      and average mudlib-selected skills. The one advantage is that
      it will train in all weapon types, but with a limit on the amount
      that a player can gain. I.e. the player can pick which weapon
      skill he/she wants to 'specialize' with.
  * Pipers: Bagpipers, Khalakhor's version of minstrels or bards.
      They'll have no combat abilities, but will be quite knowledgable
      in domain lore and language, and when piping, might provide
      some 'encouragement' for their team members.
  * Healers: The healers are a rather unique crafthall, they gain
      no combat advantage, except for a moderate defense as their
      'profession' often takes them to dangerous places, and only
      that because there's no 'run away!' skill. They are what they
      sound like, healers and nothing else, specializing in the use
      of herbs and potions to heal players and identify/cure poisons.
  * Trackers: A strange little guild, the trackers are similar to 
      rangers, but not much good in a fight. They can follow almost
      any track, so get according skill. Also their proximity to their
      target sometimes require good sneaking/hiding. In addition, they
      can be good hunters for wild game. Most frequently used as
      bounty hunters, tracking wanted people down and providing their
      location to their employers.

  True craftsmen:
  * Masons: Your basic stone-worker. They'll be largely useless in
      combat situations, though they are good with clubs (hammers) and
      recieve appropriate training to lay levels. They'll also be able
      to do little things like carve statues and possibly be paid for
      labour doing repairs in villages around the domain.
  * Carpenters: Identical to masons except they work with wood instead
      of stone.
  * Miners: Pretty much self-explanatory in what they do. They'll
      have no combat abilities, except club skill (hammers). They
      don't have a lot of uses, except as labour in any of the mines
      and quarries in Khalakhor. Frequently hired by masons, armourers
      and smiths for materials.
  * Gem-cutters: The gem cutters get no combat advantages at all,
      not even the hammer training of most of the crafthalls. Their
      only ability is in the appraisel and cutting of gemstones,
      making jewelry, etc. The only real advantage for players is
      a way to turn a profit, as they may be commissioned to make
      a piece of jewelry or cut a raw gem for someone.
  * Tanners: Leather-workers. No combat abilities, except for a decent
      knife skill for detailed leather-working. They train in how
      to turn animal hides into good-quality leather products like
      backpacks, scabbards, boots, clothing, etc. and can turn a
      profit doing so.
  * Blacksmith: Much like the masons, except their speciality is 
      related to repairing things made of iron and steel. Mainly tools
      and utensils, like barrel hoops, shovels, horseshoes, etc.,
      though they'll be able to do a little work on weapons.
  * Bladesmith: Much like the blacksmiths, except they specialize in
      swords, knives and axes. Only weapon training is club because
      of time with hammers, but they'll be able to appraise how good
      weapons are. As with many crafthalls, they might be able to 
      work for money in various places around the domain. Their
      ability does not extend to magic weapons.
  * Armourers: Pretty much identical to the bladesmiths, except they
      specialize in armour.

OCCUPATIONAL (upgraded):
------------
Every layman crafthall also has an occupational option. This is not
as easy to join as the layman branch. As the crafthalls are intended
to provide a 'means of income' to a player by basically freelancing
or mercenary means, they are frequently visited by the same
employers time and time again. In Khalakhor, the employers will
typically be by clans who have had previous experience with the
craftsman and trusts him/her enough to do the job right. If this
trust is high enough, and the craftsman is willing, the option
exists for him or her to swear allegiance to a clan (same restrictions
as joining a clan) to serve them completely. Doing so will upgrade
the player from a layman member of their craft to an occupational
member. This has a few effects:

  1: Upgrading frees up the layman slot.
  2: The craftsman who enjoyed the freedom of no allegiences and
     could work for anyone is now restricted to working only for
     the Clan. Some freelancing is still permissible, but the Clan
     will be within their right to revoke the craftsman's status,
     so he or she must be careful of this.
  3: The craftsman still has the right to the resources of the
     crafthall, and is treated with respect there. However, many
     of the resources available in the crafthall will be inferior
     to those obtainable in the Clan village, and the craftsman
     may prefer to remain there for work.
  4: If the crafthall is unrepresented in the clan's village, the
     craftsman may choose to bring one or two apprentice craftsmen
     (who may be occu or lay members of the craft) to the clan village
     and form a chapterhouse of their craft there. This requires the
     permission of the clan thane, however.
  5: Any relevant skills and abilities will increase with occupational
     upgrade, and is effective in any related crafthall.
  6: When an occupational craftsman leaves his or her clan, they
     will be returned to the layman branch, if possible, will the
     maximum allowable lay ranking. They will lose all priviledges
     extended to them by their Clan.

OCCUPATIONAL (only occ crafthalls):
----------------------------------
While uncommon, there are a couple crafthalls which are only
occupational, planned at the moment (though the idea may be
scrapped). They are treated fairly closely as upgrades from layman
crafts to occupational, except there is layman branch to fall back
on if they choose or are forced to leave. No village chapterhouses
exist in the clan villages for these crafthalls, nor can they be
formed by the player. They each have only one crafthall, probably
scattered in cities across the domain. Membership to these
halls usually requires a pre-existing allegiance to a clan before
joining the crafthall, and permission from the master of the hall
is required before joining.

  * Assassins: Obvious by their name, these craftsmen are hired
      killers. A pure fighter guild, assassins pledge allegiance
      first to the crafthall, second to the clan to which they are
      pledged. Life as an assassin can be quite brief, as orders
      from the crafthall must be obeyed on penalty of death, even
      if following the orders means expulsion from the clan. In
      either case, it's a lose-lose situation. No assassin except
      for the head of the crafthall knows any other, and even then
      only by code-names. They bear no title, no emotes, and no
      visible guild object. Orders are delivered by messengers.
      Even the thane of the assassin's clan will not know (unless
      he guesses correctly) the identity of the assassin sworn to
      his clan. When a thane requires an assassination, he relays
      a message to the assassin master, who then passes it along
      to that thane's assassin. They have excellent sneak and hide
      abilities, though only average combat abilities as otherwise
      it would raise questions about their identity. They assassinate
      by means of a poisoned dagger in the back.
  * Seers: These craftsmen are diviners, and frequently serve as
      personal advisors to the thane of their clan. They have no
      combat abilities, but their powers allow them to discern 
      almost any information they desire, such as magic info of
      objects, the name of a killer (from the corpse), a person's
      age, alignment, magical effects they may be under, a person's
      location, who a person is with, what is transpiring in
      another room, etc.