Chapter Two - The Elven-Spirit Covenant

     Rydian soon discovered that he was alone on the island, or
so he thought. He combed the island and its vast forests, fields
of wildflowers, rolling hills, sandy beaches, and rocky plateaus
in search of civilization. The entire island appeared as if it
had been untouched since the dawn of time, and Rydian felt as if
he had discovered a lonely Paradise. Wildlife was abundant on 
the island, however, and Rydian often noticed curious eyes 
watching him from various hiding places. 
     As his wanderings continued, Rydian began to notice the
peculiar nature of the flora and fauna of the island. The elf 
craved sustenance, and luckily the island appeared to be an 
abundant source of food. Rydian discovered that the forests 
were rich with fruit-bearing trees, but each time he picked a
piece of fruit, it would rot almost immediately. Rydian was 
disturbed by the seemingly magical nature of the fruit trees,
especially after witnessing the animals of the forest eat
successfully from the trees. Driven by his hunger, Rydian 
resolved to hunt for other food. Using a lock of his long hair
and a stout branch he found on the forest floor, the elf 
constructed a small makeshift bow. Pieces of slate and small
twigs were easy enough to find, and soon Rydian had fashioned
several arrows. The hunt was underway, and it was not long
before Rydian had a beautiful brown doe in his sights. The doe
seemed to be aware of danger, but Rydian was quick and quiet
and managed to get his shot off without spooking his target.
What happened next mystified the starving elf. In the split
second that the arrow sprang from the bowstring, a large
branch came crashing to the ground and intercepted the arrow
midflight. The beautiful doe sprang away into the forest,
unharmed.
     Frustrated in his attempts to find food, Rydian was 
bewildered and beginning to lose hope. Why had nature been
so kind as to save him from drowning, only to strand him on
an island and starve him to death? Despairing, Rydian made 
his way out of the forest and wandered up a steep slope onto
a great rocky plateau. A sea of smooth stone stretched out 
before him, interrupted only by a small patch of green and 
a tree in the distance, which looked like a tiny oasis of 
life on this high desert of rock. Turning around, Rydian 
realized how high he had climbed. He could see the entire
island from here, and in the distance he spotted the stretch
of beach upon which he had been deposited. Rydian turned 
again and headed toward the tree in the distance. As he walked
on, he became aware that the plateau dropped sharply off on 
its far end. The vast blue sea suddenly appeared on his
horizon and he could hear the waters crashing into the rocky
cliffs below. As Rydian finally approached the tree, which 
was not far from the edge of the great plateau, he noticed a
small clear spring amid the green grasses a few lengths
away. All of this seemed so out of place, and Rydian 
wondered if he was in fact seeing a mirage, considering his
thirst and hunger. He bent over and drank from the spring
until his thirst was quenched. Turning his attention to the
great tree, he approached it and inspected it for signs of
fruit. Rydian couldn't tell what kind of tree this was; he
had never seen one like it. He was struck by its heighth and
the reach of its branches. The tree appeared to be ancient.
Rydian thought it was peculiar that the tree seemed to have
several different types of leaves on its branches. However,
there didn't appear to be any fruit hanging anywhere. 
      Recalling an ancient fertility blessing, Rydian decided
to try it on the strange tree. As he finished chanting the 
words of the blessing, he heard something hit the ground
behind him. Turning around, Rydian saw an apricot laying on 
the ground. Somewhat hesitant, he picked up the apricot and 
seeing that it didn't rot when he tried to take a bite, he 
happily ate it. Still hungry, Rydian tried the blessing a 
second time. He heard something fall on the other side of the
tree. Walking around the large trunk to collect his food, 
Rydian was startled when he saw a shiny red apple on the 
ground. Rydian wondered what manner of tree this must be to 
bear two kinds of fruit, and after he finished eating the 
apple, he tried the blessing a third time. 
      Suddenly a voice echoed in Rydian's ears.

      "Greetings, fair one. Worry not, I mean you no harm. I 
am one voice of many on this island. The isle has many names, 
Volere it is named in your tongue I believe. For as long as 
I can recall, I have sat atop this hill watching over the 
others. They are shy and timid, they are not used to strangers.
But despite their shyness, they harbour hidden strengths,
which I believe you have already encountered. 
      "You see, the spirits have lived here, within all things 
living, for ages. The treacherous waters that you call Blue 
Fangs have long protected us. But I fear that the day will 
soon come when our shield of protection will falter, and the
delicate balance of life on our island will be uprooted. The
forces of Chaos grow strong afar in the north, and I forsee
that this destruction will soon extend its grasp southward.
My kind are strong, but we would be no match for a full assault
if our secret were discovered. I have but a few sources of 
news from afar. It was the Gyrfalcon, the Spirit-Friend, who
spotted you floating in the Blue Fangs during the storm, and
summoned great Leviathan to your rescue. He was wise in
bringing you here. I believe that you and others of your fair 
kind can do a great service to ensure our survival. Likewise, 
we are a deceivingly powerful ally. Let us make a covenant 
today that we will both gain from."

Leviathan bore Rydian back to the mainland several times to 
recruit faithful followers, and slowly they constructed a 
magnificent shrine atop the plateau. Thus was born the 
Order of Syl-Custos, literally, the Spirit Guard. 
