Chapter One - The Fortune of Rydian

     For many centuries, the existence of the isle of Volere was
little known throughout Khalakhor. Situated far, far south of the
southwestern speir of the continent and surrounded by treacherous
waters in a dreaded stretch of the sea now known as Blue Fangs, 
Volere remained virtually shielded from the outside world for years
upon years.
     On a day in an early year of the Age of Rebirth, a ship of 
elven spiritualists returning from a mission was capsized when a 
terrible storm sent the elven ship unwillingly into the roaring
waters of the Blue Fangs. All perished in the accident, save one 
by the name of Rydian. When he and his companions were tossed from
the ship, the brave Rydian did all he could to hoist his floundering
shipmates onto floating barrels and pieces of the mast. The storm 
winds were too much, unfortunately, and the towering waves swallowed
those struggling to stay afloat. Rydian himself somehow managed to
survive the calamity long enough to see that his efforts had failed.
Amid gulps of seawater and the noise of waves crashing around him,
Rydian heard a low rumbling sound begin to grow gradually louder,
and suddenly he beheld a wall of water looming before him that was
certain to send him to the sea floor. Before he could react, the
water crashed upon him and he blacked out.
     When Rydian awoke, the storm seemed to have subsided. He stared
up at the stars, laying on his back, and noticed that the entire 
night sky seemed to be passing by at a rather alarming rate. 
He had that feeling that one gets after swimming in the seawater
for a long period of time, and he still felt that he was floating.
Regaining his senses, Rydian quickly lifted his head and propped
himself up to find that he was on the back of an enormous beast 
and being carried through the waters at an amazing speed. The
great Leviathan swam south, gracefully transporting its 
bewildered passenger. As Rydian pondered how this whale must have
saved him from his watery grave, he noticed land on the horizon to
the south. 
     In almost no time, Leviathan reached the shore. Rydian climbed
down and said a word of thanks to his unlikely savior, and he
thought that somehow the whale seemed to understand him. Rydian 
swam up to the beach, and as Leviathan turned and disappeared 
into the depths, the elf set foot on the isle of Volere.
