
                         R A C E S   O F   F A E R U N

Faerûn is also home to a number of non-human creatures of varying degrees of civilization or barbarism. Among these are several different races of dwarves, gnomes, halflings and elves, as well as goblins, orcs, lizardmen, ogres, various giants, and even dragons.

Dwarves are a stout race. Most are renowned for their distrust of magic, and for their skill as axe-wielding warriors and blacksmiths, with the exception of their Underdark-dwelling cousins, the Duergar. There are many dwarf subraces, which include Gold Dwarves, Hill Dwarves, Gray Dwarves (Duergar), Mountain Dwarves, Shield Dwarves and Wild Dwarves. Male dwarves all grow thick facial hair. It is often a sign of extreme sadness and mourning for a dwarf to shave his beard

Gnomes are a small creatures. They are closely related to dwarves, but are more tolerant of other races and of magic, and are skilled with machines and illusions. Gnomes have an intricate society based on their love of all kinds of arts, pranks, and their long lives. Gnomes love indulgence, and they make most celebrations on a grander scale. Their society is based on art; all gnomes must take up some form of art whether music, painting, cooking, building, or any other form that is considered creative by the time they come of age. Gnomes are also known as the "Forgotten Folk".

Halflings are similar to humans but shorter. They enjoy good meals and are indulgent, and lead carefree lives 

Elves are slightly shorter than normal humans and more slender and graceful. Males are lightly more muscular but the differences between the genders is not noticeable. Neither grows facial hair. Elvish features are more angular and defined, typically have almond shaped eyes, and long, pointed ears. The history of the elven race are marked by great empires and a gradual decline and retreat from the mainland Faerun. Their once expansive realms have shrunk back in territory and prestige due to the influence and expansion of the younger races, particularly humans. They remain influential, however, much of the shape of Faerun is influenced by conflict between the various subraces of the elves. Several subraces of elves exist in the land which include Moon Elves, Sun Elves, Wood Elves, Drow, Wild Elves, Aquatic Elves, Avariel (Winged Elves), Star Elves, and Snow Elves.

Goblins are small monsters. They are about the height of hobbits and, walk upright even though their arms nearly reach their knees. Their eyes vary from red to yellow and are usually dull and glazed. They have a broad nose that sits on a flat face with pointed ears and a wide mouth. Their mouth contains small, but sharp fangs. Goblins usually live in tribes which are ruled by the strongest goblin in the group. These tribes vary in size from gangs of 4-9 to tribes of up to 400. Most larger tribes have wolves or dire wolves as mounts, or ally themselves with worgs, which also carry them into battle. Goblin tribes usually settle near civilized areas to raid for food, livestock, tools, weapons, and supplies. Some goblin clans will come under the control of stronger goblinoids or other creatures, who will use the goblins for their own purposes.

Orcs

Lizardmen

Ogres

Giants

Dragons



