Many ages ago, when the might and influence of the City of Telberin had reached
its zenith, the Keepers of Telberin succeeded in driving the forces of darkness
from the lands of Emerald, and a long period of peace and prosperity followed.
It was in this time that the Protectorate of Telberin was designated as the
official and exclusive source of military power permitted to occupy the city
of Telberin.

Telan-Ri, God of Light, was pleased by the accomplishments of the elves, and
yet knew that the power of darkness could never be fully eliminated. Therefore,
he wished to give to the elves a tool which would allow them to safeguard
against the return of creatures of darkness - a tool which would allow them
to pinpoint the location of their enemies, should they be discovered to once
again exist. This tool was the crystal torque.

There were at this time, two prominent individuals who had gained political
power within the capitol of Telberin - Maeltar, of the Order of Telan-Ri, and
Formandil, of the Protectorate of Telberin. Each received an identical vision,
which drew them out of the city to a secret location in the forest which
Telan-Ri had prepared. Though coming by different paths, both arrived
simultaneously, and were shocked to find one another. Both were greeted by
Telan-Ri himself who had taken the shape of a winged Unicorn. Telan-Ri
explained to them both the need to hold a steady vigil over the land, lest 
the powers of darkness once again rise up. He then gave to each a torque 
headpiece made of crystal gemstones, and instructed them in its use. 

Telan-Ri taught to Maeltar a spell by which one could create a new
Crystal Torque, and charged him with the responsibility of granting
torques to additional members of the Elvish community, who he felt were worthy
of the abilities the torque granted, and who could be trusted to use it
against the rising of darkness throughout the land.

Concealing their Crystal Torques, Formandil and Maeltar returned to Telberin
to discuss the charge that had been given them, and to lay down plans for
enactment of this new duty. They both agreed that secrecy was of the utmost
importance, and that they would tell to no one the secret of the Torque until
the time was right.

The time has come to make use of the Torque, and the fact that you are
reading this text is testimony to the fact that the Will of Telan-Ri has
come to fruition. In being trusted with the task of finding this tower,
you have been found worthy of consideration. By finding it, you have
proven your worth, correctly interpreting the signs and rites of passage.
You now are among the Torque Wearers, and are forever entrusted with
protecting the light against the coming of Darkness.

All that now remains is to bind the torque to yourself. You must wear it
upon your brow, and then speak the command word for the enchantment of
Unification. Once you do this, the Crystal Torque shall forever be a
part of you, and you of it.


Penned by Maeltar, Torque Wearer
