
Hobbits Part I
By Seaweed, 1998

100 years ago hobbits where dragged into a war that was not theirs at all. The friendship between leaders and brotherhoods among the people made it their cause and the involvement in the war began. What was a small battle becomes a war that destroyed whole continents and that continued for decades. Wizards and underearthlings fought each other aided by great magical forces and raw war power. Both sides recruited among all races and many were those who sold their souls for money empty promises or just to survive.

A group of professional warrior hobbits were gathered from the third war generation about 60 years into the war. They were equipped with black chain armour, shields and swords. These hobbits were fighting hard for whoever could pay them with pure gold, since they had inherited the effects of spells laid upon their parents decades ago which caused them to have very little empathy and a great greed. They where going to fight this battle under a black standard with a red cross in the middle. But that hardly meant anything to them, yet. The coming battle involved taking a marble castle in the mountains to secure a pass for a troop of underearthlings to use so that they could control a human supply road. The castle had incredibly enough been untouched through the war. A reason could be that there were rumours about a great power coming from that castle and also about dragons. That's why the leader of the underearthlings decided to send in hobbit troops instead of his own creatures, in case of something unexpected. No underearthling questioned that decision.

The group were lead by Tondur Wilde, a square sturdy hobbit with steel blue eyes and a little older then the rest. He was rather intelligent and there were a rumour about that he wasn't a full blood hobbit but that his grand mother had been an elf. Maybe this caused the spell craft to decay faster with him than with the rest. He had not shown to anyone what was happening within his mind but he knew that this castle was very important and suddenly he started to worry about the past. Tondur didn't know how to interpret these new feelings.

Two days before the attack Tondur decided that he should send a man up the mountain to find out what was in the castle. Even though he had captured larger castles than this one he felt special about this one. The mission was not only to find out the weak points of the castle but also to get into it and examine as much as possible of whatever it contained. He gave the mission to Zagarn Thorn, which he trusted as his own son. Zagarn left at the sunset. He didn't come back. Tondur got very worried for the first time in his life and many of his men saw this. Tondur couldn't sleep until the very morning in the second night. 

When he got awake his hands were shaking and his eyes full of tears. He was astonished when he saw that several of his closest men had worried expressions in their faces. They had never shown a feeling in their whole lives. When he got out of the tent he went for the spot where they could see the castle. He had an excellent sight, which could further point at the possible elven hereditary. Looking out toward the castle he could almost immediately discover two silver hooded figures wandering in their direction. Tondurs guards seemed not to have seen them yet even though they were much closer. Tondurs blood froze to ice when he saw that one of the figures were Zagarn.

Zagarn and the other figure stopped by the guards and talked to them. Soon had Tondurs men also discovered the figures and to Tondurs surprise they waved and shouted at the figures as if they known both of them for a long time. Soon enough the figures arrived at the camp.

Zagarn were very happy and presented the robed and now dehooded human as a friend. She was quite small and thin for human and her curly silvery hair and silver coloured robe made her look more like an elf. After introducing his closest men Tondur suddenly realized that he had no intention left to take the castle and that he felt reborn. Obviously his men felt the same way. Only a couple of underearthling observers seemed to be unaffected and Tondur realised that this could go out of hands if he didn't act fast. 

He ordered, without rational reasons, his guards to capture the observers. The guards got all underearthlings in the camp but when counted one of the original nine where missing. The captured underearthlings where complaining loudly and warned Tondur about what would come when the army arrived and indeed they were only a few miles away. Again he send Zagar away after the missing observer while trying to understand what was happening inside himself and the others in his group. The smiling human presented herself as Doris and they begun to talk.

A few hours later the underearthling army arrived with Zagarn captured like a dog behind a horse with the commanding underearthling Ugh on top. Behind him he had a small army of underearthlings, more than four times the hobbits. Ugh laughed and at his side he had a black robed hooded figure. Zagar had obviously been tortured to tell them the way to the camp. The hooded figure was known throughout the war as Dorm, a high evil magician.

What then happened is not exactly known but clearly Doris and Dorm started a battle on their own casting powerful spells at each other. Doris aided the hobbits by throwing fireballs at the underearthlings while these took their weapons and fled towards the castle. Almost at the bridge of the castle the underearthlings catched up on the hobbits and the fight started. Many were killed on both sides when suddenly a huge dragon exited from the castle. Both hobbits and underearthlings were almost scared to death but the dragon clearly preferred the latter ones. All hobbits went for the castle and soon the bridge was raised. The morning after Doris, the dragon and Dorm was all gone. Outside the castle the remaining third of the underearthling army had made a camp. Ugh and Zagar could not be seen anywhere.

During the day Tondur prepared his men for the last battle. He had made up his new mind and wanted a new life somewhere else. Most of his men agreed even though some where a little scared for the unknown, the peace. In the cover of the night Tondur attacked, not through the bridge but by a hidden escape at the back of the castle they managed to get out and flank the enemy. The victory was as welcome as it were certain and never before had the hobbits fought the enemy with so much power as this time. They had something to believe in. A new life. During the fight Tondur found Zagarn and while freeing him from the ropes he was stabbed to death by Ugh. Zagarn did not wait for revenge and slayed Ugh with a single cut with Tondurs sword. 

The next day all hobbits marched to the nearby coast where they made a temporary living for couple of years. During this time they started to know dwarfs a little that lived in the mountains around this area. The dwarfs helped the hobbits to build two ships to be able to find a new continent for a new life. The new feelings inside the hobbits also made it possible for them to make families and when the day for the big travel came both boats where very crowded. Their new friends promised to follow them with supplies and some craftsman to build the new village. What they didn't know was that there also were some observers to follow to keep an eye on them.



