
Hobbits Part II
by Seaweed, 1998

resumé

In the last big battle between hobbits and underearthlings Zagarn was freed by Tondur. Zagarn had been prisoned just about one and a half day but this period changed his life completelly. Dorm, the high evil magician, had to struggle quite hard to break the white magic casted by Doris, the silvery dragon priestess, upon all hobbits. He almost made it but when Zagarn told them the way to the hobbit camp Ugh wanted him tied after his horse to demoralise the other hobbits. Dorm was not happy about that but though that soon enough he would defeat Doris himself and that then all her white magic would decay rather quickly.

Zagarn had both happy feelings and a very dark feelings inside himself which both fought  to take command over his mind. He had crazy thoughts about killing Tondur and become leader of all hobbits mixed with sweet dreams about flowering grass meadows and chirping birds. When Tondur stood there cutting his rope the sweet dreams become clearer and pushed away the dark thoughts inside himself. He felt a battle within when he picked up Tondurs sword which was sticky of dark green blood from underearthlings. Without knowing what he was doing he raised the sword above his head and looked at Tondur where he tried to cut the rope around his legs. Suddenly blood came out of Tondurs mouth and he fell aside revealing the worst underearthling of them all, Ugh! Zagarn felt immediatelly a strong presense of Doris and he let the sword cut Ugh between the eyes all the way down to his belly in a single blow.

During the time in the temporary camp at the coast Zagarn developed new skills talking to travellers and adventurers. Somehow the dark sides never left him and he just had to be a little mean to people from time to time to let it out. He was well aware of that it was the results of Dorms magics and searched for cures within the herblore and lighter magics. People had the greatest respect for him both because of his war reputation and that they felt a little scared of him. He on the other side could not be more loyal to anyone then he was to the hobbits, but the spell upon him made him more and more lonelly and strange. The battle within him would not end until he found a cure. He did not marry a hobbit woman as so many other did during the time in the camp. He was looking forward to leave this continent a lot and helped with building the boat as much as he could and people let him.

arrival
-------
A total of 75 hobbit warriors survived the war and the time building the ships. 68 of these met a partner during this time and 45 kids were brought to life. All in all the hobbits were 188 to the number when arrived to the new continent where they found a nice place to build their village just where a creek exited into the sea. The exit were severelly hidden behind reed which was good because they did not whish to be easily found by underearthling spies if that could be avoided. They made a canal through the thick reed so that they could land the ship as close to the land as possible.

The work with village started and four sturdy bridges were built with expertise from some of the dwarfs that had followed in their path. Further more a village hall were built to house big meetings and soon enough living houses started to grow up from the ground like mushrooms. Most buildings were built of wood, dried mud and reed roofs. Burnt mud where used for fireplaces and planks could soon produced for doors, innerwalls and sheds. The village hall were complemented with a crypt below it for ceremonies and other non practical things. Hobbits are a very a pragmatic people and disregards much of such things as religion, especially on this group. Before the dwarfs went back to their homeland they gave a present to the hobbits. It was a small bronze bell ment to be placed in the village hall. A defence wall of sand enforced with wooden poles were build around the village as one of the first priorities outside the village, to keep the unknown out they said. Or the too well known... some of them thought.

after 5-10 years
----------------
The original group of hobbits had lost their bloodthirst completelly and were now converting their armours and weapons into farmer equipment. Outside the village they established crop fields to feed the village. Also hunting and fishing become necesarry to survive. After a couple of years the crop production exceeded the need of the village. Zagarn had used his herb and magical skills to make the fields very productive. The newly baked farmers of the village didn't know what was normal so they were just happy about it. Someone come up with the idea to sell the overproduction to their friends and after a big meeting in the willage hall it was decided to build a pier to accomodate ships to dock. The business become a success and it expanded to business with 5-6 different remote locations over sea and with several more by land. Having the pier in place also made the it possible to accomodate trading companies of different kinds which in turn led to the hopening of a bank.

15-20 years into the new era is where the implemetation of the village takes place. The young people unaware of the evil history build their lives as farmers and with a rather naive view of the world. The older hobbits are continously more worried about the revenge of Dorm and the underearthlings, but tries to forget about their own cruel history. Some with more success than others. In the swamp and woods around the village a group of 5-10 underearthling observers has established themselves and reports continously back to Dorm. 

---- End of story

The Village 
=========== 
The village is half hidden among large trees deep into the woods. It is placed on both sides of a creek, which flows out in a small pond from the mountains. In the centre is a village hall where the actual start room is. Below in the cellar of the village hall is a chapel for human ghosts. Around the village halls are some small buildings built of dried mud with reed roofs. About 100-200 citizens lives here. The main street follows the creek upstream through a worn down gate in the sand wall and continuos through a narrow pass towards the inner lands beyond the mountains. The village has dirt streets and a lot of flowers in-between the buildings as well as some chirping birds.

Adv guild 
---------
The adventurer's guild will have the standard features with a scarred female hobbit trainer that has not forgotten the time she spent as a professional killer. Now she teaches all and everybody how to defend themselves and stay out of trouble. The guild room has a doorway through to the Pub, which shares this building but has a separate entrance from the street. 

Shop 
----
The shop is owned by an young and alert hobbit and will allow selling new equipment like spades, sacks and gauntlets as well as buying and selling loot. 

Bakery
------
The baker is a very fat young female hobbit. She met her husband in the camp on the other continent. She has fresh bread, pies, cakes, 25 different kind of candies and 3 kinds of cookies. Also she makes a special adventurer bread made of seaweed and a special bark which gives extra energy exploring the realms.

Bank 
----
the bank will have all basic features with exchange and a strongroom. The hobbit clerk running this little office is a dreamer and sometimes he fells a sleep because hobbits don't care much about putting money in the bank. Still he thinks this a musg nicer job than working inthe fields. The bank is the only stone house however which is needed because of the many thieves in the neighborhood.

The Pub 
------- 
A normal pub with beer, ale, coffee and liqueur. The owner is a big sturdy old hobbit with bad temper which is unusual for a hobbit. He was one of Tondurs closest men and got severly wounded in the leg in the last big battle. The pain from the stiff leg makes his anger sudden. The only food in this pub is grilled salt fish in a cut bread. There is a doorway through to the Adventurers guild that shares the same building but has also a separate entrance to the street. The pub owner sometimes goes fishing with his friends.  

The Village Hall 
----------------- 
The village hall is where the start location is. The genesis FAQ, Village history and related
documents sits on a shelf besides a proclamation board with hints about the city and a brief city map. Outside the creek makes a nice view with flowerbeds on both sides and 2-3 wooden bridges. There is also a young female hobbit sitting behind a desk answering 10-12 newbie questions like: 
Q: I am hungry A: The bakery is south of here. 
Q: I am thirsty A: The pub is just north of here. 
Q: I want adventure A: The port for distant lands is just down-streams 
Q: I am bored A: Buy a rod in the shop and go fishing. 
The village hall is built with white mud and stones and has a tower with a copper roof. The tower bell can be tolled when under danger to gather the village garde. The garde will assist an attacked
newbie hobbit against the attacker. If no attack or the puller is not a hobbit the garde will just be annoyed and tell the combatants where they should go if they want to fight (outside the gate)

The Shipping Office 
---------------------------- 
In the shipping office a young and ambitious hobbit will assist you finding the right peer for your journey. He will even invite you to follow him to the right ship and is very polite. He will also
handle package deliveries as well as some small tips for the travler. He could also manage delivery tours for the adventures newbie.

Herbalist
---------
Zagarn will be found as a cackling herbalist He will sell and buy herbs and related equipment in his role as a vandering merchant. No shop. He will give mean suggestions targeting different inhabitants. He will also give hints for newbie stuff like mention 'delivery tours' in the shipping office and 'herb picking' and searching in different places. Sometimes he gets depressed and will reward the newbie that comforts him with a small gift (a herb pouch) and a tip (buy gauntlets in the shop)

Post Office
-----------
The post office will be a simple standard post office that throws the reader at you when you go in and take it back when you leave. Nothing fancy. Teach the newbie what to expext from a post office.

Blacksmith
----------
The blacksmith is a middle aged female warrior hobbit with speciality to remake armour and weapon into agricultural tools like rake, plough and spit. She will also make some newbie weapons for a nice price like 100? cc (sword) + 150? cc (Helmet + Shield) which will give any newbie enough force to kill underearthlings around the village.

Areas
=====

general
-------
I want each area to have its own smell to be explored by 'examine smell' or preferably 'smell' Also maybe 'examine sounds' or just 'sounds'. Instead of a peace area I would like the bell to gather a number of village inhabitants to rush to the village hall and help out the situation. Maybe the chapel and post office should be peaceful rooms also. The garde will stroll around in the center of the village and make nice comments about things (not as in argos - nicer :) Directions are mostly limited to n, s, w and e and it is possible to build a working map of the area (not like Palanthas :)

village
-------
A dirtroad connects the reachable building within the area. I am not sure if other building behind these should be described. The village is supposed to hold about 200 hobbits. The bridge system connects the east village road with the port road to the west.

bridges
-------
The bridges can be examined  and the water under each of them as well. Eventually they will be climbable so that hunting underearthlings and searching for herbs will be a little more exciting running the creek shore north to south (sewer?). Fishes will be seen.

woodpath
--------
The woodpath area will bring the adventurer to and from the village towards the center of the donut. The path will go through 2 rooms with agricultural theme, 3 rooms of wood theme and 2 rooms of mountain theme. Signs for heavy travel traffic is seen all along the path between south and north.

wood
----
is a dense pine wood with very little sunlight and a moisty dark soil around where I thought it would be possible to find mushrooms and herbs around. Some should be hidden and some should be easily seen, like berries on bushes. The wood will also contain a number 3-5 of underearthling observers as well as some wild animals for hunting. It is a small 3 x 3 area around the woodpath no risk of getting too lost.

mountain pass
-------------
will describe the village and sea at distance and a block terrain around the end of the path. Here the common road to the center of the donut should be connected.

agricultural fields
-------------------
A small 2 x 2 area around the woodpath south of the wood. It will contain some crops to be found and maybe also some rabbits, moles and birds. The mole could be special coded with digging emotes. Maybe
a small quest with the equipment manufactured by the blacksmith?

pier
----
Depending of the number of docking places there is a east and a west pier shaping a U formed path om the north shore of the pond. Here are seagulls and rats. 3-4 ware houses and a shipping office can also be found here. One of the warehouses has a secret passage to the swamp behind it. Another is filled with cargo from different destinations. Each box has a label that can be read reveling its origin and if searched chances are that an insect from that origin can be found. 5-6 speices that is. One is a poisonous spider that will cause shiverings and puking if it bites a newbie. Others could be ants, cookroaches, beetles, flies etc.

swamp
-----
The swamp is filled with snakes, frogs and undereartlings. It stretches south to the canal where boats can be seen passing by to the pier. NB The canal is between the sea and the pier. The pier is built in the pond where the creek exits. The swamp has potential to have more dangers added. Also some herbs could be placed here and maybe some poisonous berries with a similar effect as the spider in the ware house.