Of the Ages of Khalakhor

* A note on the Ages. Time is calculated backwards always from *
* 'current day' as of domain opening. At that time it will be  *
* the 345th year of the Age of Clans, and increase from there. *
* Any references to '550' years ago, for example, mean 550 yrs *
* before the 345th year of the Age of Clans. *

THE AGE OF ORIGIN: Circa -7000 to ? yrs.

	The Age of Origins, as the name implies, centers around
the formation of the land of Khalakhor.  In those times, there
were no mortals walking the lands, only the presence of the powers
known as the Triad, affecting the ebb and tide of things in Khalakhor.
In those times, the Triad themselves had little if any involvement
in the material plane, but the land was walked by their minions,
some of whom are worshipped to this day, mistakenly, as gods and
goddesses.

THE AGE OF ANCIENTS: Circa -5500 to -7000 yrs.

	Approximately 7000 years ago, the Age of Ancients began,
when a strange race appeared which was like nothing seen today.
No records remain of what they may have looked like, or whether
they were mortals or immortal, demonic or angelic, all that is 
known is they walked among the minions of the Triad, and during
the 1500 yrs of this age, constructed a great civilization on
Khalakhor, and the very few legends that exist refer to them only
as `the One Race'.

THE AGE OF TURMOIL: Circa -5000 to -5500 yrs.

	The Age of Ancients ended about 5500 years ago, when the
minions of the Triad began to try and draw the One Race to their
facet of the Triad, be it chaos, order, or balance.  In the ensuing
struggle between the minions, they lost awareness of what effect 
their actions were having, and before they realized it, their
pulling and swaying of the soul and bodies of the One Race had a
horrible effect, and a sort of `vortex' was formed that encompassed
the width and breadth of the land. This vortex roared across the
land for 500 years, and when it finally ceased to be, nothing
remained as it had been.  The land itself had been somehow `pulled'
into a different shape, roughly looking like a three-spoked 
pinwheel that was spinning clockwise when viewed from above, with
a circular chain of islands around the perimeter.  Of the One Race,
both their bodies and souls had been torn asunder by the force of
the vortex, and cast to the different ends of Khalakhor.  Where the 
remains settled, arose four new races in the land.  In the northwest,
where Chaos was dominant, arose the goblin races. In the south,
where Balance dominated, the human race appeared.  In the northeast,
the arrival of elves heralded the strength of Order.  In the
mountainous `hub' of Khalakhor, where the three facets of the
Triad all converged, a race known as the dwarves arose.  With the
passing of the vortex and these arrivals, the Age of Turmoil passed
into the Age of Rebirth.

THE AGE OF REBIRTH: Circa -3000 to -5000 yrs.

	During the Age of Rebirth, it was a relatively peaceful time.
The four new races evolved significantly over the next 2000 years,
under the eyes of the minions of the facet of the Triad their race
was formed by.  Most uniquely evolved were the dwarves, for in their 
central location, no facet was dominant, and no minions involved
themselves with the dwarven race, hence their race involved with
no real religion, save an almost religious love for the stone and
ores in the mountains around them.  Then around 3000 years ago, the 
relatively peaceful way of life of the new races was brought to a
halt by the emergence of a powerful Chaos minion who had deemed it
time that Chaos and only Chaos should control Khalakhor, bringing
about the approximately 1600 year period known as the Age of Legend.

THE AGE OF LEGEND: Circa -1404 to -3000 yrs.

	The Age of Legend began about 3000 years ago, when a devil
from the ranks of the Chaos minions named X'athraax arose from the
darkness of the Great Northern Waste and gathered around him the
goblin armies, and other lesser minions of Chaos.  For the next 1600
years or so, most of Khalakhor was immersed in almost endless wars
as armies of humans and dwarves, led by the incredible discipline of
the elven armies, strove to drive X'athraax back to wherever he had
come from.  In time, sixteen different magic orders joined together,
forming collectively one larger order known as The Wise.  Using their 
powers, they ascended to the field of battle one final day.
Protected by the ranks of thousands of elves, The Wise began a slow
process which resulted in the imprisonment of X'athraax, and an end
to his threat to Khalakhor.  The elven nation, which had dominated 
Khalakhor during the Age of Legend and Age of Rebirth, suffered a
heavy toll protecting The Wise.  They had lost countless numbers,
the survivors numbering perhaps 5% of those that had taken to the
field.  No longer having the numbers to rule Khalakhor as they had, 
they turned over the control of Khalakhor to The Wise, and swore to
be their guardians, as so many of their kind had died doing, until
either there were no more magic users, or no more elves.  Thus
began the Age of Wisdom, upon the fall of the devil X'athraax,
around 1404 years ago.

THE AGE OF WISDOM: Circa -1245 to -1404 yrs.

	The Age of Wisdom was a period of 163 years previous to
the Age of Might.  During this relatively short-lived age,
Khalakhor came under the rule of an order known as The Wise.
Comprising 16 separate orders, together they were collectively
known as The Wise, as each of the separate orders were different
magic users, of sorts.  The Wise took power at the end of the
Age of Legend after managing to seal away X'athraax beneath the
Well of Souls at the heart of the Land of Dreams, and the elves
had been reduced to numbers to few to continue to rule.  The
remaining elves sword to defend The Wise to the death, and in
doing so formed the Order of the Dragon, an elven society which
follows the ways of the dragon <need a name>,  of the Triad
facet of Order.  The Order of the Dragon has only one purpose in
life at this point.  Ensure the safety of The Wise.  And so did
they, for many, many years.  Until, after approximately 163 years,
the minions of Chaos arose again, and once more Khalakhor was put
into the same threat that The Wise had averted almost 200 years
before, heralding the beginning of the Age of Might.


THE AGE OF MIGHT: Circa -345 to -1245 yrs.

	Around 1245 yrs ago, began the Age of Might, which
endured for 896 years until the Highlord of Khalakhor, Lord
Braynt of Telonden, was overthrown by what would become the
first true clans of Khalakhor, beginning the Age of the Clans.
The Age of Might was largely a time of continual war, where
various kings, chieftains and warlords fought for domination
of Khalakhor.  It began when a new threat arose from the Chaos 
minions, but this time they came prepared for battle with The
Wise, not wanting a repeat of X'athraax's fate.  While they
themselves never took to the field of battle as X'athraax did 
on occasion, they did equip their armies with fantastic weapons
and armours, which were said to have the ability of nullifying
if not completely absorbing the magic of The Wise.  Seeing their
powers negated, The Wise began using their powers indirectly,
creating weapons and armours, enchanting entire armies before
they went into battle.  Many of The Wise burned out completely
in this effort, and it was during this period of around 50 years 
that the boundaries of the Age of Wisdom and the Age of Might
overlap.  By around a hundred years since the first emergence
of the new Chaos armies, at least half of the sixteen societies
of The Wise were gone forever.  The others simply vanished,
along with the Order of the Dragon, leaving the human and dwarven
armies all the power they could, to fight alone against the goblin
armies of Chaos.  The battles and wars raged on for years.  Humans
and dwarves would push back the goblins, and there'd be peace for
a few dozen years while everyone regained their strength and
numbers, and it all would begin again.  Khalakhor was ruled by
whichever warlord had the strongest army and the most land.  But, 
through it all, the humans and dwarves, by sheer numbers, managed
to slowly turn the tide of the nearly thousand year long war in
their favour.  The goblins are, for the most part, defeated around
400 years ago, reduced to raiding parties, and the human and dwarven 
warlords rule with an iron hand, particularly the human warlord
Lord Braynt of Telonden, who named himself Highlord of Khalakhor,
until the appearance of the Clans, 345 years ago.

THE AGE OF THE CLANS: Current day to - 345 yrs.

	`Modern' Khalakhor is set in the Age of the Clan.  It is
a time where the once unruly and scattered tribes and families in
the mountain ranges have managed to come to be the large and 
well-organized clans.  Frequently the clans are practically
sovereign city states, with their own armies and lands.  The clan
thanes have become the kings of these times, and there is little
that goes on in Khalakhor these days which does not have the approval
of at least one clan.  Currently, the year is 345 AC, or the three
hundred and forty-fifth year of the Age of the Clans.  The Age of
the Clans began when a number of small families scattered through
the Highlands gathered together under what would become the first
of many clans to join them, and raised an army to depose the 
current Highlord of Khalakhor, Lord Braynt of Telonden. 





