Clans of Khalakor

The main purpose behind the planning of the clans of khalakor
is that many players have a problem legitimizing their race guild
with their occupational and/or layman guilds, and frequently 
wind up having conflicts of interest.  I.e. hobbit calians 
wanting to defend hobbits in the Shire.  With the clans, players
may merge both their race _and_ occupational guilds, possibly
layman guilds if we allow-multiple disciplines within the clan.

The clans in their most basic form are a race guild. Or race
guilds, rather.  There are a number of different clans, their
characteristics (good/evil) depending on the actual members.
There are no restrictions for players to RP the clans either
way.  The only real restrictions on the clans is that the clans
originate only from human, dwarven and goblin races.  The other
races must swear allegience to a clan belonging to one of these 
races to join a clan.  For simplicity's sake, I'll refer to only
three initial clans in this doc. We'll call them 'Clan Human', 
'Clan Dwarf', and 'Clan Goblin'.

The clan hierarchy is rather intricate, so I'll have to explain
the sub-guilds first.

At the moment, there are five sub-guilds related to the clans.
The main guild halls for these will be located in some sort of
central city in the domain, called for now City.  These guilds
will be referred to as Fighter, Mage, Cleric, Hunter, and Thief.

They all are very fundamental places of training in their
respective professions. For all intents and purposes, layman
guilds, with no particular restrictions or affiliations, and
probably not much in the way of titles. However, any member of
these guilds may upgrade to occupational, but _only_ by swearing
loyalty to one of the clans. After that, their race and occupational
guilds sort of 'merge'. Should a player be a member of Fighters
and loyal to Clan Human, his title might be something like
"Joe the Warden of Clan Human, male human". Should Joe leave
Clan Human, he'll be reverted to a laymen member of Fighters.
Should he leave Fighters, he'll be a plain member of Clan Human.

Now, in the clan hierarchy, there are some positions which require
membership in a sub-guild, and some do not. Mother of Clan Human,
for example, is a title bestowed upon the wife of the Thane (chieftan)
of Clan Human, regardless of her occupation and layman guilds. The
only restriction is that she be in Clan Human.  Similar is the 
position 'Champion of the Mother of Clan Human'.  This position is
bestowed upon any member of Clan Human regardless of occu/lay guilds.
The Champion is selected by the Mother as her 'elite guard' more or
less.  Also, the Thane may appoint an advisor who need not belong
to one of the sub-guilds.

The clan hierarchy also involves a number of positions which must be
filled by members of the sub-guilds.  Soldiers, armourers, 
bladesmiths, huntsmen, clerists, mages, thieves/assassins, etc.