GLOSSARY:

Kaltyn of Loren:	A warrior of legend who gathered the
			armies of Khalakhor to his banner and
			drove off the invading armies from the
			Great Waste during the War of the Barrens.
			He is also the inadvertent founder of
			the Stone Warders.

Lysel of Loren:		Wife of Kaltyn of Loren, assassinated during
			the last battle of the War of the Barrens in
			an attempt to draw Kaltyn from the battle.

War of the Barrens:	A battle fought to defend Khalakhor from
			invading armies from the Great Waste in the
			far north during the Age of Might, lasting from
			325 AM to 332 AM.

Godsbreath Pass:	A narrow pass that leads down out of the
			rugged Stonebark mountains down into the
			Barrens.  Was the site of the final battle
			of the War of the Barrens.

Stonebark Mountains:	A high mountain range that forms a natural
			wall between the Barrens to the north and
			the Highlands to the south, and passes
			completely across the country.

Stonekeep:		Home of the Stone Warders and the location
			of the Stone, the stone which contains Light
			Talon, the sword of Kaltyn of Loren.  Located
			at the northern entrance of Godsbreath Pass.

Coven of the Stone:	A branch of the Stone Warders which broke off
			in 122 AC, and believes they are meant to
			hold Light Talon, and take Kaltyn of Loren's
			rightful place as ruler of Khalakhor themselves.

Stone Warders:		A society formed at the end of the War of
			the Barrens to guard Light Talon until Kaltyn
			of Loren returns to reclaim it, housed
			in Stonekeep.

Light Talon:		The weapon of Kaltyn of Loren.  Guarded in
			the fortress of the Stone Warders, Stonekeep,
			until his return.

The Vigilance:   	Also the Time of Vigilance.  A two-week
			period observed in remembrance of the two
			weeks following Kaltyn of Loren's 
			disappearance at the end of the War of
			the Barrens.

The Barrens:		Wide, empty lands just north of the
			foothills of Godsbreath Pass.  They are
			devoid of almost all life, and serve as
			a buffering zone against attacks from the
			wild Great Waste of the North.

The Great Waste:	Also the Great Waste of the North.  A land
			in the far north of Khalakhor, beyond the
			edge of the world where the land is steeped
			in perpetual darkness.  Little is known of
			the region, except that it is home for
			unknown varieties of evil.  Rumours abound
			about an order of knights who dwell there,
			battling to take the land from the very evil
			it fosters, but few people give merit to the
			stories of the Death Warriors.

The Death Warriors:	An order of knights that dwell in the
			Great Waste.  Little is known of them, save
			they are reputed to walk with Death himself
			into the field of battle against the evil
			which is spawned in the darkness of the
			Great Waste.

 			
Clans:              	During the current age, the Age of Clans,
			Khalakhor is largely ruled by a number of
			groups called Clans.  Usually, the members
			of a clan are blood relations, but it is
			not unheard of for someone to join a clan
			by swearing allegiance to the clan's thane.

Druids:			A largely unknown remnant order from The Wise,
			all that is known is this order resides under
			the protection of the Order of the Dragon on
			one of the islands in the southern chain.

Order of the Dragon:	A sect of elven warriors, sworn to protect
			the surviving orders of The Wise.  They are
			fiercely faithful to this duty, and believe
			in justice above all.

The Triad:		The Triad is a name of the three governing
			'entities' of Khalakhor. Chaos, Order, and
			Balance.  They themselves have no direct
			contact with the land, but their minions and
			followers are often looked upon as gods or
			goddesses by the mortal races.  The Triad is
			symbolized by a circle divided into three
			pieces, or 'facets' by a wavy line, with each
			facet looking something like a teardrop
			rotating clockwise around the others.

The One Race:		An ancient race that existed during the Age
			of Ancients, they were destroyed by the rivalry
			among the minions of the Triad, and out of the
			remains arose the races of Dwarves, Humans, 
			Goblins, and Elves.
