Hammerhands guild.

Version 2 - After a small Cotillion's revision.

This layman fighter guild is a sort of alternative for Blademasters.
It is a guild enhancing club fighting techniques for evil-aligned
goblins and dwarves.

Membership:

Goblins and Dwarves of evil align may join.
The members MUST NOT be in a magical or clerical occ. guild.
Members are given a tattoo, open to everyone, that indicates their
membership.
The members must stay negatively aligned. If a member falls into
positive alignment, he/she must return to negative one within 43200
heartbeats or until his/her next return to the guildhall.
Leaving the guild costs all the gained skills and the money spent on
training in the guild (once again!) . Members who are forced out of
the guild lose 1/10th of their combat experience.
Members have to have club skill at confident veteran or higher to join
or stay in the guild.

Skills:

Parry - superior craftsman
Appraise enemy - superior journeyman
Appraise object - superior acolyte
Blindfighting - superior layman
Climb - superior acolyte
Hunting - superior acolyte
Trading - superior journeyman
Mending weapons and armours - confident journeyman

Abilities:
Diverse club attacks -
* Jab - an attempt to hit the enemy in the abdomen/plexus
	maximal damage, function of strength and armour A_BODY of the
	opponent. 
* Joint - an attempt to hit the enemy in the arms/legs
	medium damage, function of strength and armour A_ARMS/LEGS of
	the opponent.
* Hook - an attempt to hit the enemy's head or side with a concealed
	 hit, small damage, function of dexterity and strength, and
	 armour A_HEAD/A_BODY of the opponent. When connects with the
	 head causes mana loss of the opponent.
* Whirlwind - an attempt to concentrate on parrying the hits with the
	 club. The club wears out faster.

All attacks are function of skill "club". Whirlwind is also function
of skill parry. Blindfighting penalties apply.
Members improve their sp. attacks by either sparring it in the training
room, or in combat. Each success raises the sp. attack by 6, each
failure by 2 in sparring, success by 2, failure by 0. Two members may
spar together in the training room. Max value of sp. attack is at
100000. When untrained, special attack starts decreasing by 6 points
in 1000 heartbeats of player's life.

Repair clubs in guild forge, just like smiths. Can't forge new ones.
Members can use whetstones but can't find them.

When in the guild one can see what members are in the game at a room.

Guildhall:
* Pub with food and drink
* Rack for clubs ONLY.
* Shop with lamps, backpacks, torches, whetstones
* Training room (skills + spar)
* Forge
* Dormitory
* Join Board room
* Common Board connection
* Guild board.

Titles:
[unconcealable]

The Fresh Hammerhand
The Amateur Hammerhand
The Aspiring Hammerhand
The Practiced Hammerhand
The Able Hammerhand
The Steady Hammerhand
The Stalwart Hammerhand
The Weighty Hammerhand
The Skilled Hammerhand
The Impressive Hammerhand
The Famous Hammerhand
The Powerful Hammerhand
The Superior Hammerhand
The Titanic Hammerhand
The Crushing Hammerhand
The Hammermaster
The Legendary Hammermaster
