The Colleges of Elemental Magic, an introduction for wizards.

    In some ways this is four guilds instead of one. The Colleges, 
four secretive academic institutions in Calia, share joint facilities
and a joint council, even though their magical abilities are all 
rather dissimilar. The reason for this will be expounded later, first
a quick overview of elemental magic.

    The Colleges teach the art of drawing elemental power directly 
from the elemental planes in order to weave spells. Few have the
ability to learn how to use magic this way, because it is linked to
how "close" a person is to an element. A person with this gift has
a personality very strongly influenced by the element in question. 
As a consequence, a person can only ever learn how to use *one* of
the elements in this way, which one is determined by predisposition.
In addition to possessing this gift, a prospective student must have
good academic credentials, for developing these abilities requires
rigorous study.

    Brief synopsis of each of the Colleges:

    Element: Fire.
    Personality keywords: Raging, passionate, aggressive, inspired
    Magic type: Offensive       - Extremely strong
                Defensive       - Weak
                General utility - Weak
    Sample spells: fireball, blinding flash, smoke screen

    Element: Earth.
    Personality keywords: Serene, steadfast, nurturing, loyal
    Magic type: Offensive       - Mediocre
                Defensive       - Very Strong
                General utility - Mediocre
    Sample spells: stoneskin, pebble to boulder, weaken

    Element: Water.
    Personality keywords: Philosophical, languid, gentle, meditative
    Magic type: Offensive       - Weak
                Defensive       - Strong
                General utility - Strong
    Sample spells: shapeshift, skill drain, mirror shield    

    Element: Air.
    Personality keywords: Moody, playful, vivacious, unpredictable
    Magic type: Offensive       - Strong
                Defensive       - Weak
                General utility - Strong
    Sample spells: invisibility, scrying, lightning bolt


    Looking at these personality types, some of which are polar
opposites, one may wonder why the Colleges stay unified. The reason
is cooperative magic. While elemental magic is powerful, it is also
highly focused and limited. Many things cannot be wrought using one
element alone. A key area of study for the Colleges therefore is the
combination of several casters into producing one greater effect. 
Using such a ritual, the guild built its current home, a tower of 
marble in the mountains in Calia. 

    There are three levels in the guild: Apprentice, Mage and 
Scholar. Apprentices study under a mentor, who must be of Scholar
level. Apprentices only get access to a few spells, while most spells
are accessible to someone of Mage level. A couple of the most 
powerful ones are only available for Scholars. Each of the Colleges
is governed by a Principal, who is responsible for promotion/demotion
within his branch. More serious decisions, such as ejecting someone
from the guild, accepting a new member or demoting a principal have 
to be approved by the council of Principals, which is referred to as 
the Assembly. The latter has a chairman that casts a tiebreaking vote
if necessary.





