
    Elemental Magic, an introduction
    by Draughan, founder of the College of Water Magic.


    This text is meant as an introduction for the beginning student
of the elements into the principles underlying our craft here at the
colleges. Most of you have probably been taught parts of this by your
mentor, but it is still useful to have such a document for reference
in the public library.

    Performing elemental magic is a matter of drawing and focusing
power directly from the elemental planes, of which there are six. 
They are fire, earth, air, water, life and death. None have been 
found who are able to touch the latter two, so we only teach the four
first here in the Marble Tower. It has become clear to us that only 
those whose nature lie close to that of a particular element can 
learn to channel power from the elemental planes; will and mental 
ability plays no part. However, we are only able to admit those who
have, in addition to this gift, the academic disposition required to
be a good student. Obtaining conscious control over this ability is 
indeed difficult, requiring rigorous study and practice for most. 
Those who are untrained may be able to perform small feats from time 
to time, but their magic is almost always incidental and weak.

    One might ask what it means exactly to be close in nature to that
of an element. We do not know precisely where the ability comes from,
but it has been observed that the gifted of a particular element tend
to share certain personality traits. Fire is usually linked with 
anger, passion and aggression. Earth on the other hand with serenity, 
protectiveness and nurturing. Air users tend toward being carefree, 
moody and unpredictable. Finally, those able to wield Water are as a 
rule gentle, languid and poised. We have found that none are able to
use more than one element, a fact that fits well with the often
conflicting personality traits associated with the various elements.

    Naturally, with such differing personality types in a guild there
is plenty of room for argument. The colleges would likely have
separated long ago if not for one key discovery: cooperative magic.
One element can be powerful in itself, but elemental mages of 
different elements can join forces and weave spells that are greater
in power than the sum of the spells available to two individual
mages. The greatest works have always been wrought by cooperation in
this manner, examples are the elementals the Worshippers call Pyros,
Diabrecho, Aeria and Gu coming together to create Calia, or the first
Assembly constructing the Marble Tower in a day. All guild members
who reach sufficient mastery of their own element are initiated into
cooperative magic, where there is still much to be discovered.

    -End

