Morboses's Curse

When finally the cracking of the wagons has faded away in the distance,
Maldabroot sighted in resignation to his faith.  It someone would has 
told him two weeks ago that he was going to be exile to the most 
horrendous, humiliating and forgotten post in the kingdom, he would 
have laugh his heart out at the mere thought of it.  Now he wasn't 
laughing at all.  

Who would have thought that his cousin would has so little sense of 
humor now that he is the elvish king of Emerald.  He wasn't that way 
when they grew up together, Maldabroot mused walking silently to the 
main gate of his new residence.  Mondarin always had enjoyed his pranks, 
he remembered. But now marry with that cow of Meltessa, he has turned 
all sour and serious. Maldabroot thought angrily: "It was so an 
innocent prank! Bull toads are harmless although noisy but that is the 
fun part.  I didn't think he will get so upset to find one in his 
throne.  But I have to say it was worth to see the face of the queen 
turned as green as the toad, it served her right!  But now I am here 
in this mud hole and not even a reception entrance for me! They will 
hear from me these pitiful servants!" So the new lord of Ovejuno 
entered his new residence, Castle Talbarion.

Maldabroot wasn't a bad elf at things go in the kingdom, but right now 
he was a bitter one.  A young elf, no more than 70 years, handsome to 
the ladies of the court--that always sighted longingly when seeing his 
blue eyes and silky black hair--he has hoped that his first assignment 
would have been one of the rich port cities near Telseron.  But now in 
disgrace with the king, thanks to her bovine wife Meltessa, he was 
assigned to the worse post ever found in the kingdom, the human village
of Ovejuno.  Human shepherds and some artisans lived in a poor hamlet,
that didn't deserve the name of village or that was what Maldabroot 
thought in his bitterness.  To make it worse, it was quite high in the mountains, so he always got 
some tantalizing glances of the sea far in the distance, where he knew 
where the best posts.

How he hated the queen. "One day I will get back to her.", he promised 
to himself. But now he has to deal with the petty problems of humans. 
"Why --he asked to himself-- I has been burden with these scum, these 
humans! They are so primitive and dirty and overall so beneath my 
station".  He mood was so foul that sometimes he just wants to jump 
from a parapet and be done with life.  But of course, he loved life 
like any other elf and hopes that eventually his cousin, the king, 
will forgive him.  He knew that he was too bitter to be rational these 
days, so even though he didn't like the humans, he tried not to be 
unjust with them, but he didn't has to like them that was for sure.

The castle didn't look like a bad place, Maldabroot recalled, thinking 
when he first entered a couple of months ago. Although it was a little 
run down because it has being unoccupied for many years, since the 
death of the previous lord, Morboses.  That has been quite a scandal 
and another reasons why the post was so beneath his status, Maldabroot
had thought miffed.  

Morbose, the previous lord, has irate the king when reports of his 
dealing with dark magic, a complete betrayal to Telan-Ri, the God of 
Light, arrived to the capital.  The subsequent magic battle was 
something to be talked for many years after the fact.  Fire, ice, light
and darkness spells and more terrible magic were used in the battle.  
Morbose seemed to have being completely mad, but that is the price that
elves paid when dealing with Val-Shoreil, God of Darkness.  

Maldabroot always shivered remembering the story.  To be living in the 
same place were the accursed betrayer lived, compounds his humiliation.
But what was worse is that what he thought were just rumors and 
superstitions, were truth facts.  At the beginning his logical mind 
couldn't believe the facts but the last incidents clarified any doubts 
in his mind that the castle was haunted.

He remembered that one of his friends in the court has told him of 
Morboses's curse.  It was said that it was such a terrible curse that 
he had died uttering it.  It seemed that Morboses preferred to die and 
curse the place than surrender to the king' wizards. Of course, he had 
laughed about such notion of a curse still operating in the castle.  
He had thought that the king' wizards had had the sense to 
counter-spell the curse before any other lord would move to the place. 
He has attributed the delay for any new lord to move into the castle 
to the bad location and lowly status of the post.

But now he wasn't sure anymore.  At the beginning, when he moved, the 
human servants had resisted to stay at night in the castle.  But he has
prohibited them to leave him unattended at night.  What kind of lord he
was if he let them get away with that, he has thought annoyed at the 
time.  But at least he has a good detachment of elven soldiers so he 
had the power to back his orders.  But now that he started remembering 
all the little weird details in both the castle and the village, he 
realized what a fool he has been.

He had visited the village a couple of time in the last three months.
It was as bad as he has expected.  Wood and thatch huts spread in the 
little mesa where the village rested.  At the end of the cliff, in the 
distance, he could see the blue sea that surrounds Emerald sparkling 
beautifully.  That was the only thing remarkable to the elven lord.  
The rest he disdained at befit an elven noble.  The villagers were 
lowly humans that attend sheep in the hills behind the village.  
There were some stores for general commodities, a tailor, a blacksmith 
and a midwife that served as healer too.  The first thing he did, was 
to talk with the elders of the village, to inform them about him being
the new lord and he expected them to send the appropriate tribute.  
After that he surveyed the village and talked with some of the 
villagers.  Everybody behaved respectfully as they should but there 
were many whispered conversation all our Maldabroot, that stopped when 
he approached them.  But he dismissed as villains bad manners.

He should have suspected that something was really wrong when he got to
the castle. His servants refused to stay in the castle at night.  His 
first night, he couldn't even sleep in the castle, because it wasn't 
ready yet, so he slept with the garrison.  But first thing in the 
morning he asked his soldiers to bring all the human servants supposed 
to work for him to the castle.  When all were gathered in the main room, 
he explained them who he was and what there duties were and that he 
expected completely loyalty from them.  Any failing to do so, would be 
punished with an immediate execution.  After that no one left the 
castle after dark.  He was please with himself. After all he has dealt 
with the problem right away and without any fuss.  Although with the 
passing of time he noticed that his servants always walked in pairs and
all slept in the same room, even though it was quite small.  But he 
dismissed as some quaint human custom.  

Then after a month, the first male servant was found dead.  It was not 
a murder. There was not blood or evidence of fighting, just seemed that 
the poor soul died of fright. With the second death, the rest of the 
servants tried to run away from the castle, but Maldabroot couldn't 
allowed.  So again he has to use his troops to stop them to leave the 
premise.  But the peace of the castle was broken.  

Maldabroot started hearing the rumors of the curse again and of a 
secret menace that lurked in some of the abandoned rooms.  In the 
village was worse, the people openly talked about Mordeses's curse and 
how they expected Maldabroot to die a horrible death.  He would have 
ignored all the gossip if he hasn't found out what was the menace of 
the dark was.

One night he was restless with all the things going around his head.  
The mysterious death of the servants, still upset him.  It was his 
responsibility to protect this miserable humans, and he felt he has 
failed.  With his insomnia he decided to explore the castle.  It wasn't
a big castle, actually castle was too big a word for this place, more 
like a country villa. He was sure that in its best days it has been a 
lovely place to live, but now after so many years of abandoned and right 
now being understaffed, there were areas unused by him.  Dust and 
cobwebs were everywhere in the far section of the castle.  Some of the 
stairs went down to what he thought was the dungeons but he wasn't so 
eager to visit that place.  The third floor was closed so he decided to 
visit it to see what stuff was stored there.

At first there were just empty rooms only filled with dust and white 
sheets covering furnitures. Nothing noteworthy.   Until he found one 
room that was pristine.  That was a surprise.  He wondered if one of 
the servant after all sleep in there by itself.  Or maybe some of the 
humans used it for more lustful reason.  He chuckled to himself.  He 
couldn't blame them, actually he was feeling quite alone without a 
female of her station to celebrate as befit a manly elf like himself.  
He missed his courtly life no for the first time since he moved here.  
He shook his head and started surveying the room.  It was quite a nice 
room, better than his own.  A king size bed monopolizes more of the 
space in the room.  Nice draperies decorated the walls and a couple of 
suggestive statuary was strategically place in the room, make it quite 
a nice nest to hide with a beautiful woman.  The bed look so inviting 
that he decided to rest on it.  

A touch startled out of his sleep.  He didn't remember how long he has 
slept but realized that now he wasn't alone in the room.  A soft and 
sweet smelling body laid besides him.  His candle was barely a little 
wisp of flame, but he definitely could feel a female resting with him. 
No only that but she has awaked too and without words she started 
fondling boldly Maldabroot body.  After so many months without a female 
his body reacted just in seconds to her ministrations.  He wanted to 
see who this wonderful creature was, so he fished for a spare candle 
that he has brought with him and with difficulty-because she was to 
busy distracting him--- he lighted the candle with the old one.  What 
he saw startled him.  A well-endowed elfin maiden was looking at him 
with desire in her eyes.  She was the most lovely elf maiden he has 
ever seen in his life.  Luxuriant dark tresses fell like a cascade in 
her back and front, barely covering his quite full bosom.  

He was inflamed by desire and didn't question why or from where this 
lovely women come from, but with renew force went to her and started 
kissing her.  She responded with the same ardor and in minutes he was 
as nude as she was.  A small voice in his head was screaming at him, 
questioning what the hell he was doing with this stranger but he was
to busy doing other things to listen, until a small painful prick 
jolted him to reality.  He pushed the woman away from him and to his 
horror saw with the light of his candle, the long-fanged canines that 
protruded from the woman lips.  Her face has been changing all the 
time that he was been busy elsewhere and now to his horror realized 
with what his has been celebrating, a succubus, an evil spirit more 
interested to eat his soul than whatever.  

Now that the plot was discovered, she or it, hard to tell with these 
monsters,  wasn't going to let him go.  He used the only thing that he 
had available to fight, the candle, and throw the flame to her face. She
retrieved to the far side of the room and hissed at him.  He ran to the
door and to his chagrin found it locked from the outside.  He swerved 
to face the succubus and found her readied to pounce over him.  He 
tried to think fast before she attacked him but couldn't think straight.  
He wished he has his sword with him.  He started moving around the room
trying to maintain his distance from it and spied a big bookcase.  An 
idea exploded in his head.  Without thinking twice, he moved to the 
big furniture. At the same time the succubus followed him slowly.  
When she was too close for his comfort, he pulled the bookcase over 
the succubus. It was so fast for the she-demon that it froze in place 
letting the books and the furniture fell over it.  Maldabroot didn't 
waste time and rush with all speed and force to the door and broke it 
in pieces before the succubus could recover.  He didn't stop until he 
was safely back in his room.  

Now he didn't know what to do.  He knew now what has killed all the 
male servants.  Maldabroot realized that the king's wizards didn't 
bother to lift the curse, for what reason he couldn't guess.  He only 
recourse was to send a message to the king and hope that Mondarin will 
send someone to help him to lift the curse, whatever it was.  He knew 
that the succubus was part of the curse but not the only part of it.  
Whatever it was,  he wasn't sleeping alone, now two of his soldiers 
stand guard in his room as a wise precaution-the irony amused him-
that his servants practiced.

But help didn't come. To make him more miserable and bitter, the king 
didn't believe his message and instead to send a wizard to exorcise 
the castle, another lord from the king court has stopped in his castle 
to question his sanity.  He was sure that was the revenge of the queen, 
ah how he wants to get back at her, but that will have to wait.  Now he 
has to entertain the toad of Vigotree and convinced him that he was not 
crazy. In this moment, Maldabroot would paid handsomely to anyone that 
help him to get rid of the succubus and the rest of curse.


This story will  continue...
