Sparkle
In the beginning, there was ... Sparkle.

The village where all things originated, the Sparkle of life in the world of Genesis, was chiseled into being way back in 1991. With the buildings showing little wear of age, Sparkle is the place to visit for a young explorer and an old adventurer alike.

Speaking of young explorers, Sparkle does provide the necessary facilities to equip anyone for a journey. The Adventurer Guild of Sparkle can teach the basics of hunting, climbing, swimming and other wilderness skills. For those who avoid the comfort of wilderness and brave the dangers of civilization, trading skill is thrown in to survive a visit at the General Store nextdoors.

The village surroundings provide for many short walks where you can admire the lush meadows, deep forests and high mountains. You might even stumble upon a miniature dwarf kingdom or a full fledged mercenary camp ! A measure of caution is required though, as you can meet not only an occassional mercenary or an itinerant monk, but also an ogre mage or a flesh eating giant.

While friendly to young explorers, Sparkle caters to the old adventurers too. Those looking to be in the center of things will not miss the Tower of Realms. Within the walls made of polished marble, it hosts the information offices of the Domain Lieges, as well as the bulletin boards, where the comers and goers exchange information of general interest.

Vying for the attention of visitors with a taste for history and a coin to spare for a ticket is the Mvsevm of Genesis Events. Past a grand entrance with a flight of marble stairs and a balcony that sports a banner of every Domain of Genesis is a host of exhibits that document the ever popular events. Who knows, perhaps you will do well at an event yourself and your name will be immortalized in the tomes too.

Finally, those not sated with the sights of Sparkle will find the harbor a good starting place for travels to other lands. Full twelve piers host a fleet of ships that will take you anywhere on a regular schedule.
