	"I have fled from Heaven and brought this lost history to the hands of men
that they might know the truth of the eternal struggle waged for their possession
of their souls."
	-Radiant

	This document summarizes the changes I wish to propose in addition to
existing Raumdor history.
	
	In the afterman of the battle between Gylar and Ryu-Khan, the resolution
of Gylar's terrible spell bound countless souls of Raumdor to undeath. The
scattered remnants of Ryu-Khan's army fell back into the mountains where
they remained hidden in exile. Disillusioned from the leadership of Ryu-Khan
and stricken by grief, they erected a monument to their fallen comrades,
and attempted to settle at it's foundation.
	The warriors soon found that by contemplating and reflecting upon the
deaths of their allies, they could communicate with the spirits beyond the
Veil in the Netherworld. Drawn to the spirits of their lost friends, these
men and women continued to cultivate their ability to view and travel the
Netherworld, and so came to discover that not all souls of the dead travelled
to the Grave as they should. Gylar's spell had trapped the souls of the
slain, suspending them in eternal imprisonment between life and death.
	These warriors soon began a crusade to free the souls of their allies
from the clutches of necromancy, guiding the trapped souls into a proper
afterlife.
	It was not long thereafter that a zealous new leader emerged within
their humble village: a man named Raumdor. He preached of his visions of
the Netherworld, the struggle between the Nameless One and God, and their
calling to vanquish the undead and all its creators.
	A schism rose between the two sects, as one pitied the undead as victims
in need of release while the other saw them as a menace to be scourged. One
saw the Netherworld as the place where spirits exist beyond life, the other
as the origin and home of all evil.
	What had happened, in fact, was that God and the Nameless had been at
eternal odds, and God abandoned the Netherworld for his own realm, Heaven,
taking those souls dedicated to his struggle along with him. The Nameless
One's power of necromancy, however, would bind the victim's soul to the
Netherworld, pulling them into his realm at the time of death or destruction.
	So while both factions were enemies of the those who would bind the
souls of the living to undeath, they were in direct disagreement on what
should be done with the undead. The spirit guides, wanting to protect the
lost souls of their allies and ancestors, insisted on ritualistic sending
of trapped souls to the afterlife, as well as ventures within the Netherworld
to check the power of the Nameless One and free the souls of the imprisoned.
	Raumdor, however, had taken notes from both the spirit guides and the
Nameless One, using both of their abilities for the sake of God. He borrowed
rituals for the freeing of souls from undeath and adapted them for use in
their destruction. He also spread the blessing of God, the same spell the
Nameless One had used to bind souls to the Netherworld, to bind souls to
Heaven. 
	Because the spirit guides viewed God's leaving of the Netherworld as
abandonment of the souls of the dead, they began referring to his transferral
to Heaven as 'the Betrayal.' Also, they considered God's blessings that drew
the souls of the dead into Heaven to be no better than that which the
Nameless One had cast, as it defied the right of the soul to freedom.
	The current story, then, is this: the Khiraa and the Nameless One attempt
to bind souls to the Netherworld, God and Raumdor's followers attempt to
bring souls to Heaven through their blessing, and the spirit guides, who
are trapped in between the two, attempt to free people's souls from the
grasp of either, and attempting to take back a place in the Netherworld
where the souls of the dead may be both free and at peace.
	
	In short: undead are servants bound to the Nameless One, angels are
similarly bound to God. The spirit guides consider them both to be the 
same: imprisoned souls.
	The 'spirit guides,' as I'm currently calling them, inherited the
ways of the warrior from their ancestors, but also possess these new
spiritual abilities. 
	The small area that I wish to make is a monastery, temple or pagoda
of these guides. While it appears to have been left in ruins, the guides
still reside in this location, but on the otherside of the Veil, the
invisible border between the World and the Netherworld. Through small
quests and rituals, players may at some point be able to interact with
the spirit guides.