Houses for mortal players

1. General

Various ways of enhancing the game of the players of Genesis have been
debated. The ones that serve alternative to playing a killing machine
receive top priority. Houses for the mortal players are seen as a such
alternative.

2. Purpose

This document is proposing a specification for the initial stage of
introducing rudimentary houses for players' usage. It is by no means 
final and doesn't need to be implemented fully as well. This document
does not discuss even vague software engineering aspects of the
implementation. 

The houses will provide players:
* with a luxurious status
* with a way to spend the mighty financial assets they collected
* with certain benefits owner of a house receives
* with additional objectives against houses of their enemies

The houses will provide the game:
* with the infrastructure for erection of new buildings by players
* with an open road to develop more intricated structures such as
  o forts
  o guildhouses
  o commanding of npcs

  
3. Method

A. The 1995 version

Ten years ago an attempt to create such a system was launched. Despite
the honest effort, the process waned slowly and the design is started
anew. Nevertheless it is possible that the some from 1995 version will
still be used.

B. The 2005 version

This document indicates the project being restarted. No team was
drafted for it so far, but the first signs indicate that the
specifications for the project will be prepared by Tapakah, Arch of
Players, with close participation of 1995 version author, Mercade,
Arch of Mudlib.

4. Definitions

* Room - a space with exits that may be arbitrarily described and
  contain various objects. Each room shall have a single-word
  description as well.

* House - a set of one or more rooms with one or more exits, at least
  one of which is used to get from a room outside the set into the room
  inside and vice versa. House is located next to the room it is
  ordered in and has a separate description.

* Exit - a way between two rooms, may be two-way or one-way and may be
  provided via doors.

* Doors - a manageable blocker of an exit, gates are considered same
  as doors, and both may have locks, and also may be opened, closed or
  broken.

* Locks - a device installed upon the doors or the gates which disable
  or enable their opening. The locks may be locked, unlocked or
  picked.

* Descriptions - short and long descriptions of rooms and the items
  listed in the room.

* Objects - concentrations of matter that may be practically and
  theoretically moved between rooms.

* Containers - objects that may contain other objects.

5. Location

On the place where the house is ordered to be built, upon the
completion of the house it appears as an object. A new exit, 'enter'
is added to that room that leads into the house.

While in general the location of the house is arbitrary, the following
limitations may be considered:
1) Two houses may not be built adjacent to the same spot.
2) A house may not be built adjacent to a room that is an INSIDE room.
3) A house may not be built adjacent to a room that has an 'enter' exit.
4) A house may not be built on a set of terrains.
5) A house may not be built in a room that has a property forbidding it.

Alternatively, a property for a room might be introduced that DOES
allow building a house. The houses won't be buildable in any other
rooms then.

6. Contents

Obviously, in potential houses may have as rich contents as human
imagination is. Nevertheless an attempt to classify and prioritize the
contents of the house is made below:

A. Descriptions

Any descriptions that are within the rules of the game (i.e. no
harrassment, quest information, etc.) can be used for a room or for a
house.

Special note about windows: in general, windows are, of course,
allowed. But at initial stage, to avoid burglary conflicts, they will
be reinforced with grates or placed too high for reach.

B. Objects

Any object in the game that is available for carrying and doesn't have
problems with inside rooms may be brought into the house. The glowing
items may be set to reload when reboot catches them inside.

o Developer's note: limit each room's volume.

See also 9.C Carpenters and 9.D Freighters.

C. Containers

Similarly to the objects, various containers may be placed in the
rooms. See also Developer's note in 6.B. Objects and points 9.C
Carpenters and 9.D. Freighters below.

D. Doors

Exits between the rooms might be filled with doors which must be
ordered separately. The descriptions of doors may be arbitrary
complying with the rules of rooms' descriptions. The doors may have
locks that must be purchased separately. The doors may be broken by
applying a great force and/or using bludgeon weapons or
explosives. The broken door cannot be locked or fixed and must be
ordered anew.

E. Exits

Normally, the rooms will have exits that work both ways. The house
initially shall have one exit communicating with the outside
world. The exits shall be named either as geographic directions or as
room one-word descriptions.

o Developer's note: later one-way exits, non-obvious exits and
  multiple exits to outside world may be considered.
  
7. Access

The statements below refer to entering the house, exiting it and
travelling between house rooms altogether.

Normally, without a door, or with open door, anyone can enter the
house. When the entrance door is closed but unlocked, it should be
opened or broken first.

A. Locks

A lock prevents the door from opening. Any lock may be picked up. The
lock doesn't protect the door from being broken as well.

A unique key would fit the lock. See 9.B. Locksmiths for multiplying
the keys.

o Developer's note: for a great price or on special condition
  non-pickable locks may be supplied.

B. Thieves and Burglars

As stated before, in general nothing protects a house from a
robbery. Better locks and doors help guarding the house. See also
13.A House enhancements and 13.B House expansions on possible future
protections.

o Developer's note: allow conditional hints discovery about an
  occurred robbery.

C. Snoops

The houses shall be snoopable at least by Lieges of the domains the
houses are located in and arches.

8. Actions

The house rooms will immediately allow certain roleplaying actions to
be performed by the player. Objects present in the room may add
actions regardless of the actions defined by the rooms themselves.

A. Startloc

A house room can be turned into startloc for a player.
In addition meditation may be allowed in a room of the house.

B. Commands

Aside from pure RP actions, a command 'relax' or likewise may be
allowed to improve restoration of fatigue for a player inside his or
her own home.

9. Ordering

The ordering in general is similar to armour/weapon ordering procedure
of Genesis public smithies or clothing shops. The differences are
listed below:

* Houses with initial doors, locks, keys and possibly generic
  furniture are ordered directly from the stonemasons. The player
  finds a spot for his or her house and summons a stonemason foreman
  to it, and if the location (see 5. Location) is approved, the
  construction shall start.

* As the project develops additional improvements may be bought - new
  rooms built, new locks purchased from locksmiths, new objects made
  by carpenters. Too heavy objects may be carried by freighters.

All the craftsmen named above would prototype future craftsmen guilds.    
They're described more detailedly below. All the craftsmen have
synchronized offices in various locations on the Donut.

A. Stonemasons

They are the builders of the house. They will have offices around the
Donut where they would advertise their services. The service is
performed as following:

1) The potential customer is handed a special messenger that should be
   sent from a location where the customer wishes the house to be
   built.
2) When the message is sent, a foreman arrives immediately and
   evaluates whether the proposed place is suitable for the house
   according to 5. Location. If it isn't, a new messenger is handed
   and cycle repeats.
3) If the place is suitable, the foreman starts to construct an order
   in the way smiths do:
   o Number of rooms
   o Names and descriptions of the rooms
   o Exits
   o Doors
   o Locks
   o Generic furniture
4) After the order is complete, the construction starts and takes some
   time. An advance payment has to be made. When the house is
   completed, the payment can be done in several transfers, but only
   when the payment is complete, the player can use the house (until
   then the 'enter' exit is blocked)

   o Developer's note: consider allowing review of insides.

Pricing: Consult AoB. A draft proposal would be:
House: 1000 plats + 5000 plats per room
Doors: 200-600 plats per door
Locks: 400-1600 plats per lock, 10 plats per extra key.
Furniture: 100-600 plats per item
      
B. Locksmiths

They are makers of locks and may multiply the keys. They will have
offices around the Donut. The service is performed as follows:

1) Multiplication of keys is done on the spot.

2) Purchase and installation of the lock. When the lock is ordered,
   the locksmiths know how to locate player's house and install the lock
   themselves.

Pricing:
Keys: 10 plats per key
Locks: 400-1600 plats per lock

C. Carpenters

They can make objects for use of players' and the new doors. They will
have offices around the Donut. The service is performed as follows:

1) Some items may be done on the spot. The order procedure resembles
   the one of a public smithy. The following items may be considered:
   o beds
   o wardrobes
   o racks
   o cupboards
   o tables
   o desks
   o others
   
2) Some of the items may be too heavy for a player to carry. The
   player may then ask for a delivery to his own house or organize the
   delivery by him/hefself.

Pricing:
Beds: 20-60 plats
Wardrobes: 50-800 plats
Racks: 30-500 plats
Cupboards: 100-400 plats
Tables and desks: 30-100 plats
Deliveries: function of price, weight, volume and distance of delivery.

See also Developer's Note 2 in 9.D Freighters.
     
D. Freighters

They have carts and wagons and are also of great strength. They can
haul objects for players around the Donut. Their offices are in major
cities of the world. The service is performed as follows:

1) The player arrives at the office and places an order. The office
   knows a set of destinations. All the carpentry offices and all
   players' houses are known destinations. The order also contains the
   name of the object or of objects to transfer.

2) The player must pay an advance payment and then the order is being
   performed.

3) On any difficulties in delivery process, a messenger would be sent
   out to the customer and a meeting location will be proposed.

o Developer's note: would the freighters actually travel, or transfer
  momentarily.
o Developer's note #2: should delivery into locked houses occur?

E. Maintenance

In prospect, any items supplied by Stonemasons, Locksmiths and
Carpenters may wear out and request fixing or replacement.

10. Control

Logging of some of the procedures performed during house construction
and enhancement should be logged. Also possibly all entrances to the
houses should be logged.

Considering the financial sums involved, all transactions should also
be logged.

Our players are very creative. We will surely run into some unintended
usage and thus we may be forced to cooperate with mortals during the
whole process of development to achieve best results.

11. Implementation

A. Method

For the near time, only text documents will be rotated. Only after the
minimal set of features for the prototype is finalized and
well-defined and the regular set of features is also normalized and
clear by about 90% will the prototype be created.

B. Process

The following aforementioned features are considered mandatory for the
most slim prototype:

- 5., 6.A, 6.B, 6.C, 6.D, 6.E, 7.A, 7.C, 8.A, 8.B, 9.A

12. Testing plan

When a rudimentary house is completed well enough to try and use it on
the players.

A. Area

The preferred area for testing is the Khalakhor area north of Port
Macdunn which is mundane plain area.

B. Participants

Although juniors are always available, we might consider involving
more experienced and trustworthy players for the pilot, considering
exposure of unintended usage and addition of creative ideas.

13. Future developments

Very briefly.

A. House enhancements
* Additional exits to other outside spaces.
* Windows
* Traps
* Fancy objects

B. House expansions
* Gardens
* Hedges
* Guard dogs

C. Other buildings
* Guild houses
* Player-run inns
* Forts
* Barracks
* Warehouses

D. Servants
Hireable npcs to perform various tasks:
* Guards
* Maintenance
* Craftsmen
* RP
* Trainable?

