             Part 1 - Information that may become known to mortals.

The Elementals

     As everyone knows, the world is made of four elements:  earth, air, fire,
and water.  The varying mixture of these elements makes stone, wood, bread,
wine, and even flesh and bone.  But the ancient Kyrulians discovered that these
elements were each created and governed by the four Elementals, unimaginably
powerful beings who created the world in four days.  The short form of the
creation story is traditionally told this way:

          Lady Gu hewed a great stone from the limitless void that
          existed before the world was born, but the stone was
          without shape.  Lord Pyros ignited a great fire which
          melted the stone so that it could be shaped into mountains,
          plains, and valleys.  Lord Diabrecho cooled the stone by
          drenching it with water, so much that seas, lakes, and
          rivers remained long after the stone had cooled.  Lady
          Aeria saw that some bits of the great stone had been
          loosened in the shaping and the cooling, and she set them
          in motion with a gentle breath, starting the dance of life.

     Unfortunately, most of the Kyrulians knowledge was lost in the destruction
of their walled city, which once commanded the summit of Mt. Kyrus.  Of their
legendary library, their many rituals and chants, and of their personal
relationship with the Elementals, only a few tales have been handed down to the
present generation.  Most of these concern the individual characteristics of
the Elementals themselves.  While the tales vary from region to region of
Calia, the following descriptions summarize the attributes upon which they
generally agree agree:

    Pyros

         A muscular warrior-prince with eyes like flames and flowing red locks
    of hair and beard, he wields a great flaming sword and bellows with a voice
    like a roaring furnace.  Unforgiving and unswayable, showing disrespect to
    him invites immediate immolation.  He is the most intense and dangerous of
    the Elementals.

    Diabrecho

         Physically handsome, he is distinguished by unfathomably deep and
    knowing eyes, hair rich and flowing like the sea, and a body that is both
    muscular and sleek.  He is the sage and wise philosopher who speaks in
    rich, deep voice like the rolling of the ocean waves.  Although he wields a
    great blue-green trident, he is not particularly warlike.  Most intelligent
    and laconic of the elementals, he is the least threatening but also the
    least accessible.

    Aeria

         This fair lady is lovely beyond words, with long flowing golden hair
    and sparkling sky-blue eyes, and her comeliness is matched by a sweet
    disposition.  Light-hearted and merry in character, free in laughter, she
    speaks like a whisper of the wind with breath as sweet as Spring, but she
    can blow a sudden and powerful gust when she feels the need.  She wears a
    crown of clouds and is often depicted with translucent butterfly-like
    wings.  While the most agreeable and beautiful of the elementals, she can
    be flighty, unpredictable, and a danger if perturbed.

    Gu

         The lady of nature with vivid green eyes and rich, wavy brown hair,
    she wears a long gown of flowers.  She is a tranquil spirit, generally at
    peace with all Creation, but beneath the serenity lurks a dark, dour side
    to her character, ruthless and hard when the need arises.  She speaks like
    the sound of stones running down a mountain side and wears a crown of stone
    roses.  Most compassionate and understanding of the elementals, she can be
    severe in her revenge if sufficiently provoked.

The Ethereals

     While the Elementals seem to have been understood and revered in ancient
times, there are persistent rumors of other mysterious forces at work in Calia
which have never been defined.  In the ponds and bogs of Calia, in the shadows
of the dense pine forests of the north and the oak and birch stands of the
south, in the strange territory known as East Calia, and in other regions where
the natural state of the land is rarely disturbed by mortals, lurk the
Ethereals.  Their origins and purpose were unknown even by the Kyrulians.
Their appearances are unpredictable, but it is often repeated that the
traveller who wanders from the road into a tranquil place for a moment's rest
or reflection may not find himself alone for long.

     The word "ethereals" is widely used to denote the strange, ephemeral
effects that have been observed in the far reaches of Calia.  First-hand
accounts detail encounters with fairies, sprites, sylphs, goads, will-o-wisps,
pixies, and a variety of other aeriform beings.  In general, they seem to mean
no harm, but travellers are advised to take care in their presence, for some
have been known to make a profound and lasting change on the mortals who
encounter them.

                           Part 2 - For Wizards Only!

Before the Beginning...

     The beloved children of the Creator, who became known to the mortals of
Calia as the Elementals, spent their days hanging onto Her apron strings,
playing with the tools and ingredients in Her kitchen whenever they could get
their hands on them, and pestering Her assistant Fatty, who was a source of
constant amusement to them.  Eventually, Fatty was banished from the kitchen
for an act of unbridled gluttony and condemned to wander Genesis eternally,
vainly trying to satisfy his limitless appetite.  With their favorite playmate
gone, the children grew bored, and they frequently visited Genesis to tease
Fatty and play in the hills and valleys that formed as he ate his way around
the world.  Their favorite place to play was a large dirt pile that received
abundant rainfall year-round, an excellent site for splashing in puddles,
making mud pies, and other simple pleasures.  This place would eventually come
to be known to mortals as Calia, but that story will be told elsewhere...

The Elementals

    Pyros

         The eldest and by far the most aggressive, he is a small but tough kid
    with red hair and freckles.  By virtue of his age he's convinced that he
    has the right to boss the others around.  Most of the time he gets his way
    with vigorous name-calling and shouting, but he occasionally resorts to
    force if he's sure that the odds are in his favor.

    Diabrecho

         A skinny kid with lank black hair and spectacles, he is quite clever
    but introspective, not particularly sociable or even very aware of others.
    The other children tend to mock him and make him the butt of their jokes,
    and while he rarely replies in kind, he can brood and hold a grudge for a
    long time.  He occasionally surprises the others with elaborate pranks that
    reveal both careful planning and a wicked mean streak.

    Aeria

         She is a pretty girl with golden hair, lighthearted and carefree, but
    she's also vacuous and vain and sees everything in a doll's house
    scenario.  Not very bright, she has a short attention span and tends to
    squander what little concentration she can muster on her own needs.
    Certain in the knowledge that she is Mother's favorite because she is the
    prettiest, she has no tolerance for any situation in which the other
    children get more of Her attention, and frequenty cries or pouts to put the
    focus back on herself.

    Gu

         Pretty but unable to compete with the effervescent Aeria, she's a
    pudgy girl in a flowery dress, prone to mood swings varying from pleasant
    to bitchy to sulky.  Like Diabrecho she's quite smart, but her talents run
    more toward taking advantage of opportunities than careful planning.  If
    she's angry with one of her siblings, they know to steer clear of her for a
    while, as she'll be sure to trip them as soon as they're near a puddle or
    some other minor hazard.  Fortunately, she never holds a long-term grudge.

Early Games

     As the children grew old enough to play organized games, the land
developed as well.  Plants spread over the surface of Calia, forming marshes,
forests, and lush valleys, and in the moist, temperate climate, animals soon
began to flourish as well.  Among the first to appear were many varieties of
frogs.  The children found them particularly appealing because of their great
variety in colors and markings.

     The frogs soon became the focus of simple games.  Unfortunately, whenever
Fatty came through their play area, he would eat most of the frogs and the
children had to wait for more to appear before they could resume play.  They
complained to the Creator, who whipped up a special bunch of poisonous frogs
and spread them throughout Calia so that Fatty wouldn't try to eat anything
there again.

     When the children were still quite young, the rules of the games were
simple.  Usually the object was to collect the greatest number of frogs, with
each child selecting a different color.  Or occasionally they would try to
collect "sets" of frogs, with the first child to gather a spotted, striped,
two-tone, and solid color frog being the winner.  The rules were never more
complicated than that, and often accusations of cheating and spats over fair
play took more time and effort than the game itself.

     If the Creator were particularly inattentive, a squabble among the
children might escalate into a mass tantrum.  This upheaval could manifest
itself in the form of an earthquake, tidal wave, or, worst of all, the dreaded
mudstorm.  If a whirlwind should center itself around the Gaklands of East
Calia, a whirling column of sticky mud (gak) might be whipped up.  This column
would follow the wind, which might blow in any direction, and absorb any number
of rocks, sticks, and other loose objects, carving through Calia like a giant
saw until it absorbs so much matter that it collapses under its own weight.

The Emergence of Styles

     At the beginning, all the children played in basically the same way,
running about the land and gathering frogs as fast as they could.  But as they
grew a bit, their developing personalities revealed themselves in different
playing styles.  Pyros, for example, developed a brute-force method of
gathering frogs.  He would stomp on the ground around a marsh or forest, hoping
to flush out a large number of frogs all at once.  This technique often scored
a quick victory for him, but he sometimes accidentally send the frogs toward
one of his siblings, whose victory invariably mandated a tantrum from Pyros.

     Diabrecho turned into a real planner and schemer, often sneaking away from
the others before a game began to survey the dispersion of frogs.  He would
then steer the 'rules of the day' discussion in a direction that gave him an
advantage.  This strategy didn't always work, however, and if he found himself
losing, he would often pretend he wasn't really interested in the game, calling
it "just practice," or he might even stop play by accusing one of the others of
cheating.

     Aeria plays by "feel" and really never showed much interest in the
competition.  She tended to be easily distracted and would often forget the
rules of the day.  If the other children teased her about always losing the
games, she could ignore them for a while, confident in the knowledge that she
was still Mother's favorite, but if anything happened to cast doubt on that
central theme of her existence, she could raise a sudden and powerful wind that
ruined the game for everyone.

     Gu was a quick learner, and she was adept at turning the rules of the day
to her own advantage.  She always suspected her siblings of not playing fair,
and when she saw anything suspicious she was quick to abandon the game.  Her
sulking was always and ominous sign, for it was certain that she was planning
some unpleasant "revenge."

New Toys

     The children continued to mature, and simple games soon held no interest
for them.  They were always curious about the continuing evolution of their
world, and their fascination with frogs waned as elves, dwarves, and other more
interesting creatures populated the land.  Pyros, the eldest, was the first to
discover how amusing these creatures were.  He entertained himself and his
siblings with "stupid mortal tricks," an array of dances, chants, and rituals
he could elicit from mortals just by stomping his feet or emitting a resounding
belch.  These early mortals who had contact with the children came to be known
as the Kyrulians, a name born of misunderstanding when Aeria interrupted Pyros'
with a great blast of wind when he first attempted to talk to the mortals.
These Kyrulians became the authors and custodians of an elaborate mythology
that explained the children's manifestations in terms that other mortals could
comprehend.

     For a time, the children treated the mortals as beloved pets, making sure
they had everything they needed and keeping them from harm.  The Creator had
already ensured that nothing dangerous would grow in the area, so the children
only needed to tend to the wind, water, air, and soil.  Diabrecho tamed the
waves and, with the help of Aeria, who sent the gentle breezes across the green
fields and forests, showered the land with enough rain to provide a bounty of
plants but not so much as to ever cause a flood.  Gu cast seeds across the land
and caused a great variety of trees and vines to grow, many of them bearing
edible fruits, and much to Aeria's delight, Gu also bedecked the hills and
fields with brilliant wildflowers.  Pyros, always looking for new ways to
impress his mortal pets and elicit even more elaborate displays from them,
mastered the art of the boiling mudpit and smoking mountain, creating so much
smoke and steam at times that he obscured great expanses of the land.

     The Creator was pleased.  Her children were maturing and cooperating in
ways that were advanced far beyond the abilities of the average 1000-year-old
prepubescent deity.  Even though Pyros was still a bit of a bully, the other
three children's concerted effort to tend to their pets seemed to have a
mellowing influence on him.  The Creator gave them each a pat on the head, some
tender words of praise, a caution not to let the mortals see too much of them,
and then left them on Genesis as she returned to her kitchen to attend to
obligations that we can only imagine.

The Cheater

     Left to their own devices, the children, led by Pyros, began to play games
with the mortals, using various ploys to make them move about.  In keeping with
their Mother's admonition, they rarely made themselves visible, and then only
fleetingly and largely obscured by clouds, waves, or other natural cover.  The
games began as simple variations on the old frog games, and the children
delighted in the complex movements they could elicit from the mortals with just
a small effort.

     Pyros, once the great favorite of the mortals, soon found that his
siblings were increasing in popularity.  Unlike frogs, the mortals retained
their preferences between games, and he eventually realized that he was
beginning each game at a disadvantage.  He needed something to even the odds,
and under cover of thick smoke, he went beyond the bounds of the play area and
enticed mortals from other lands to join in.

     It took several attempts for him to find the right ploy, but he discovered
that mortals in ships would sometimes follow a light burning on the horizon.
Pyros raised several piles from the ocean floor and set them ablaze,
extinguishing each one as mortals drew near enough to see the next one on the
horizon.  Soon travellers from afar charted the route to Calia, and they began
to arrive in ever greater numbers, many of them paying homage to the "fire god"
who had led them to the fertile land.

     The other children soon realized what Pyros had done, and they cried out,
"Cheater!  Cheater!"  But they did not run to the Creator for a remedy.  No,
they considered themselves older and wiser now, and they decided to remedy the
situation themselves.  They all began to change the rules of the games, using
whatever they could find or make to gain an advantage.

     Aeria spread the Black Fog wherever Pyros' mortals gathered.  The fog had
no odor and refused to dissipate like normal fog.  It was as if the air had
been commanded to absorb all light.  Some mortals ran in fear when the darkness
enveloped them, but others had seen such darkness before.  They called it
"night," and some even reveled in it, and with the aid of lamps and torches
they used it to their advantage.

     Gu rooted deep in the earth and found some strange gray spores.  When she
brought them to the surface, they burst and sent tendrils into both living and
inanimate surfaces, even hard rock and metal.  The tendrils expanded into a
seething mass that became known as the Devouring Fungus, which spread rapidly,
scattering Pyros' mortals before it.   Swords were of little use against it,
but the mortals soon discovered that fire was an effective weapon.

     Diabrecho offered the fiercest response to Pyros' new mortals.  From deep
beneath the sea he raised a monster of astounding proportions.  The beast was
virtually invulnerable to attack, and it could sweep hundreds of mortals away
with a single swipe of its tail.  Mortals who saw it called it the Behemoth,
and it struck such fear in them that many who had the means left Calia for
their native lands.

     The Behemoth was so effective in scattering Pyros' mortals that Gu and
Aeria applauded his effort, and the three of them teamed up against Pyros and
made his mortals retreat pell-mell in all directions.  But their merriment
turned to horror when they took a closer look at what had happened to the
land.  The Behemoth was KILLING the mortals, and what's more, the mortals had
begun to kill each other.  The children tried to make the killing stop, but it
was beyond their control.  In desperation, they cried out for their Mother.

The End of the Games

     The Creator looked upon Calia and was aghast.  No cries of "Fatty made us
do it" would assuage her anger this time.  Before scolding the children, she
performed two extraordinary actions, both cloaked under the cover of an
impenetrable mist.

     First, She laid Her hand upon a mountaintop where one crowd of mortals had
surrounded another and was preparing to slay them.  With one swift motion, She
lifted the entire mountaintop and moved it out to sea, where it rested on the
surface, far from the attackers.  Second, she raised a mound in the eastern
part of the land, far from any mortals, and encircled it with a ring of salt.
On top of the mound, where they could cause no harm to the mortals, She placed
the Behemoth and the Devouring Fungus.

     After a stern rebuke, She sent the children back to Her kitchen, where
they stayed while She cleaned up their mess.  Then She cleared the mist,
surveyed the land again, and wept.  The peaceful little land had fallen into
discord.  Death stalked every field and forest, and mortals marched in ever
greater numbers seeking to fight and slay each other.  The Creator pondered the
situation as the children peered at Her through the kitchen window.

The Remedy

     The Creator returned to Her kitchen, and unlocked the spice cabinet.  The
children huddled in fear behind a counter.  From far in the back of the
cabinet, where celestial spiders had long since spun their webs and a thick
layer of stardust had settled, She pulled a strange earthen jar.  It bore the
label "ETHEREALS (ASSORTED)" and a small stamp that read "USE SPARINGLY."  The
lid was well-sealed with a dark wax.

     She broke the wax seal, and gingerly lifted the lid.  Only Pyros was brave
enough to peer over the counter to see what was inside.  The contents seethed
and sparked.  Color and light roiled and surged within the jar.  The Creator
studied the strange, luminous gas intently, as if assessing its potency.
Eventually, She nodded to Herself, confident of the efficacy of the substance,
and left the kitchen.

     She stood above Calia with the jar in Her hands.  Again she studied the
land, as if looking for some distinct landmark.  When She had settled over a
particular spot, She turned back toward the kitchen to see a fearful Pyros
peeping out the window.  Her stern countenance softened, and She called to him,
saying, "Py, dear, would you bring me the smallest spoon in the rack, please?"

     Pyros was elated and excited.  He grabbed a tiny teaspoon and rushed out
toward his Mother.  Alas, in his excitement, he stumbled over the mound she had
made earlier, and plummeted headlong toward the ground.  The Creator reached
out and caught him, but in the process she tipped the jar.  All the contents
rushed out in a stream of sparks, flashes, and swirling colors.  The strange
mixture separated into countless streaks and globules and was absorbed into the
land, water, and air of Calia.

     The other children rushed out when they saw Pyros fall, and they marvelled
at the extravagant display made by the contents of the jar.  A stern look from
their Mother, however, quickly subdued them.  They stood in fear of a
particularly vociferous scolding, especially Pyros, but She took them back to
the kitchen, closed the door, and admonished them, "little ones, it's going to
take ALL of us to fix this mess now."
