Here are the directions for running through the Vision of Delphia quest:
 
1. Collect all the tomes. This is not necessary from the code's point of
   view, but a real player would need to get all these and interpret them
   to do the quest.
 
   cd ~zima/argos/dephtemp/rooms
   goto library3     take tomes from altar
   goto classrm      take tome from podium       read plaque (FYI)
   goto antermw      take tome from pulpit
   goto anterme      take tome from pulpit
   goto lounge       take tome from desk
   goto qrtpsn       take tome from desk
 
2. goto hiercham
      take robe from wardrobe
      wear robe
 
3. goto sacris
      take medallion from pedestal
      wear medallion
 
4. goto winery
      take wine from table
 
5. goto talis
      pray for blessing
      drink wine  (you should be poisoned now)
 
5. goto chapel
     kneel
     pray for revelation
     (take note of the scene which you see)
     rise
 
6. Next you must find the scene which was revealed in the chapel. The scenes
   are portrayed on the tapestries, murals, paintings, etc of the temple.
   With each scene (which is part of the quest) an inscription or words
   will be written somewhere (where is indicated when you exa <artwork>)
   which is the text of the prayer in honor of that scene which must be
   remembered.
 
   List of scenes and where prayers can be found:
   (you must read inscription/words written on each piece of artwork)
 
   -------------------------------------------------------------------
   2nd letter   Room where found   Try             Text of Prayer
   ----------   ----------------   --------------- -------------------
     A,B        quartch            exa picture     Empsanisae Protos
     C,D        classrm            exa tapestry    Elpida Progoni
     E,F        dine2              exa mural       Aleipso Delphia
     G,H        mstrnov            exa tapestry    Akoustico Opama
     I,J        lounge             exa mural       Mentagio Parousiasae
     K,L        dine1              exa mural       Palaekari Megalos
     M,N        corr28             exa relief      Ktaenos Skopos
     O,P        captngrd           exa tapestry    Dogza Demonstrates
     Q,R        recept             exa tapestry    Suntheke Eirpun
     S,T        quartnpr           exa mural       Kataskeun Naos
     U,V        quartnps           exa mural       Eulogia Naos
     W,X        portico            exa ceiling     Pouli Agios
     Y,Z        corr26             exa relief      Thriambos Latreia
 
7. goto chapel
      (if you are not still poisoned, repeat steps 4 and 5
      kneel
      pray <text of scene> (you should receive a blessing of being chosen)
      rise
 
8. goto sacris
      take dagger from pedestal
      wield dagger
 
9. goto zima/argos/nwterr/rooms/fold.
      kill lamb
      take corpse
 
10. goto sacris
       take bowl from pedestal
 
11. goto sanct
      do this 3 times:
         fill bowl with blood
         drink from bowl
      place corpse on altar
      chant praise unto the Light of Darkness and to Our Mother who brings it
