Message: 161
From   : Tomas
Reply  : Future on genesis
To     : Udana
CC     : Goldberry, Mecien, Cecelia, Tomas and Rhyn
Date   : Fri Mar 10 01:17:29 2006

Okay, sounds good. I encourage my Wizards to pick a project
that interests them most and go with it. If any of the
following isn't of interest, please write something up and
send it to me. I'm really flexible so long as you are inspired
and are happy coding.

We have several projects in Terel that need work. I'll attempt
to list them here.

The first project that I would like to see added right away
would be the new silver forest.

Silver Forest: /d/Terel/silver_new/
The Silver forest is rather huge but isn't random like the old
version, which every once in awhile would load add_exits
to the same room putting the player into an infinate loop. Very
bad.. The forest still needs to be trimmed. When I created the
map I created a rectangle on graph paper, so i'd like to remove
some of the edges and create more of a valley shaped map
with a well kept road passing from the northern Calathin gates
to the cornerstone. I recoded Regata the witch and her cottage
(the frog Azure place). And Rhyn added a randomly cloning
exit to her new hovel so she'll move around throughout rooms
in the forest (see the silver_new/include/defs.h file for details.)

I also need a bandit grouping added to the forest, and guards
both mounted and infantry patrolling the road along with wagons
of merchants travelling from Calathin to Last and on up
to the new Northern Terel area.

Elderwood Forest: /d/Terel/mountains/elderwood
The next area is another large forest beginning just north
of the current tomb area and moors. I created this area a long
time ago, but then left the domain and never finised it.
The Elderwood leads to the plains which are home to refugee's
from the Vale. The Vale is a small uncoded area north of Stone
Keep overrun by the hoarde. The Hoarde would be various
mountain critters such as frost giants, yeti things that
are basically staving and have wandered down into the
Vale looking for food. They basically have overrun the lands
north of Stone keep.

Stone Hold: /d/Terel/mountains/stronghld/
Stone Hold is basically a Dwarven outpost or fort blocking
the northern area of Terel from the south. Envision a large
sheer sided mountain pass divided by massive walls north
and south built by the dwarves.

Maskyr Keep: (uncoded)
Maskyr keep will be the new home of the LoD and the
return of Mergula. Located on the sea coast out the east gate
of Calathin, south of last and north of Dabaay long the coast.
I big multi level tower full of quests and killing areas.

Some of the smaller projects/ideas include:

Troll caves: /d/Terel/mountains/tcaves/

I have a version of the Troll caves on my private server that i'm
adding spiders to. I'll upload the code shortly. Its another
Ragata quest. These are some loose ideas/notes i'm toying with:
 - on each spider add:  One gland = 1 dose of poison that can be used on a
weapon
 - Add a special corpse object for the behemoth that can be milked for hag
quest
 - add cocoons with killed adventurer descriptions
 - You say: lets add a cave in at the entrance to the spiders
      something not to obvious unless you examine the wall
      then allow the adventurer to dig it clear
      then put a reset on it, to hide it after he/she leaves
      'as you exit east, the ceiling falls sealing the cave'
 - spiderkill.o file. when a player dies from a spider, a cocoon with
    their descripton is added to the room.
 - Add a silver,iron or gold mine?

Weapons:
 - very shiny shield (various magical effects when hit, blindness)

Misc:
 - roving adventurer groups - campsites, inns', etc. (roving code from
Cotillion)
 - wagon/caravan code  (donated by Herlwin of Angalon)
 - random treasure generation system for Terel                                 
          

Old code review:

dragon.

--
---

---
Mar  7 2006 /d/Terel/mountains/goblincave/cave22 (Tomas)
I noticed the wolves itching themselves during combat. Not bloody
likely!!

add emote function to default /d/Terel/std/monster.c and creature.c
to query for combat and fail for emotes, add_asks and anything
an npc or creature would do during combat.
--

---
Eldar should be more magical 'voodoo' than physical combat
maybe poisonous dust blown onto attacker
curses, etc.. (pool from the Mystic spell code perhaps..)

Perhaps necromancy could be used here. Eldar summons an undead skeleton
who wields the obsidian longsword..
---



Tomas

