The following are ideas for quests obtained from the captain of
the town guard.

Port Macdunn Invasion Quest:
    This is a rather large quest, but the amount of danger is fairly
small, so I'm hoping it'll be a nice interesting quest for smaller players.
First, the player visits the captain asking for a quest/task, etc. The
captain says they've been having reports of goblins being seen prowling
around the village, and is looking for any info the player can provide.
Players don't actually have to do this first, since the quest can be
'stumbled' over rather easily, but they'll still have to think to come
check with the captain before they can do much.

    Now, the main quest involves the players finding the tunnels with
the goblins beneath the fishmonger's shop. They have to find two objects.
The first is a scrap of paper with details on the invasion, which is
hidden in a hay paddock. The second is another scrap found on the body
of one of the goblins (randomly set) which is a message from the 
fishmonger himself.

    If the player takes either paper to the captain of the guard, he
says it is quite interesting, and is sure the fishmonger is working with
the goblins, but needs more proof. This is accomplished by giving him
both papers. This in itself is enough to have the fishmonger executed
for treason, but when they go after the fishmonger, he's already dead,
someone shut him up before he could talk.

    The rest of the quest is heading off the invasion itself. The second
paper is now worthless, but the first is still pretty valuable. It has
three sections. Village details, shipline details, and troop details,
none of which the player can make sense of at first.

    By giving the paper to the captain of the guard, he'll inform the
player that the first section contains details on when patrols are in
what part of the city, and the strength of the patrols.

    The harbour master can explain the second part, it's a list of 
the arrival times of one of the ships, and who is on duty in his office
at those times. He'll start thinking about it, and tell the player he
has to go pay a visit to one of the people on the list, then leave. A
little while later, he'll track the player down (if the player's still
in the village, otherwise will wait until the player comes back), and
show up covered in blood, reporting that one of the people on the list
was another spy who was letting goblins slip in a few at a time over the
past couple weeks on the ship from wherever. The person on the list
decided to put up a fight, and was killed by the harbour master, but
not before the harbour master managed to wrench a description of a contact
out of him on the other end of the line.

    The third part is a more detailed explanation of what's going on,
including the number of goblins in the final movement, how many are
already in town, and who the goblin 'allies' are. For this part to be
translated, the player will have had to get the second part described,
at least, and look for the contact on the other end of the line. The
person in question will be a complete coward, fortunately, and tell the
player what the final section means. He'll follow the player back to
Port Macdunn, hoping for protection for what he knows, and be killed by
a goblin as soon as they land.

    Now, the player knows all the details of the invasion, and will be
able to inform the captain of the guard as to when the other goblins are
arriving, and the quest is done.