Special practice
================

Introduction
------------

The swarm and maul specials have two skills each: 
a knowledge skill and a form skill. So there are four 
skills in total for Calian specials: swarm knowledge, 
swarm form, maul knowledge and maul form. 

A knowledge skill indicates the highest level a player 
has trained a special, for example if a player has trained 
maul to superior guru in the Calian training room, s/he 
will have a maul knowledge skill of superior guru for as 
long as s/he is a member of the guild. A form skill 
indicates the level that a player can fight at, which 
cannot exceed the corresponding level of knowledge. For 
example someone with maul knowledge of confident 
professional could have a maul form anywhere between 
"no skill" and confident professional at a given time. 


Restrictions
------------
The sum of a Calian's form skill levels (swarm form 
+ maul form) cannot exceed superior guru, for example 
the form skills could both be superior journeyman, or one 
could be superior guru and the other "no skill" (provided 
the player has enough knowledge). In contrast, a player's 
knowledge levels can both reach superior guru, i.e. both 
maul knowledge and swarm knowledge could be superior guru. 

A Calian can "practice" the form of a special up to the 
level of the corresponding knowledge skill by using the 
special against an opponent in battle. Practice begins with 
"cpractice start". Subsequently, each time a special gets 
used against an opponent, its form level increases (but 
never to above its knowledge level). At the same time, the 
form level of the other special will decrease by the same
amount. For example, each time swarm is used while practicing, 
a number of levels could be added to swarm form, and the same 
number of levels subtracted from maul form. The reason for 
having "cpractice start" (and "cpractice stop") is to allow 
players to keep form skills at fixed levels (e.g. both at
sup journeyman). 


Values
------
The following values apply where swarm/maul are used against 
powerful opponents (average stat 100). The lower the average 
stat of the opponent, the longer it takes to practice. 

For the maul special (which has a cycle of 20 seconds), 
the number of form levels raised by one use of maul against 
an opponent varies between an average of 7 (when the player 
has maul form between 1 and 10) to an average of 2 (when the 
player has maul form between 91 and 99). It takes on average 
just over seven minutes of constant mauling to train maul's 
form from a level of 1 to 100. 

For the swarm special (which has a cycle of 10 seconds), 
the number of form levels raised by one use of swarm against 
an opponent varies between an average of 3.5 (when the player 
has swarm form between 1 and 10) to an average of 1 (when the 
player has swarm form between 91 and 99). It takes on average 
just over seven minutes of constant mauling to train swarm's 
form from a level of 1 to 100. 

The time to train a special's form from a level of 1 to 
100 will likely be significantly more than 7 minutes on 
average due to breaks between combat, stuns on the player 
etc. 

I suggest taxing this feature by increasing the combat aid
of the more powerful special by 1 / 6 of its value. If the
specials had been typical alternatives, the increase of 
combat aid would have been 1 / 3 according to recent rules. 

Maniac 19/9/01, 29/9/01 (approved by AoB after modifications)
