The monastery (yet to be named) is located north of Port
Macdunn, between the coast and the interior forest. It
is a remnant of a sect of monks/mages who were one of
the sixteen orders of The Wise. The monastery is
uninhabited, and largely fallen to ruins. It is enclosed
by a ring of hills covered in thick brambles too dense
to penetrate, the only means of entrance is an overgrown
road through the forest that leads to an archway guarded
by two stone gargoyles. The gargoyles will attack any
who attempt to enter, unless they carry an artifact from
the sunken ship on the shoal just southwest of the
monastery. The artifact will fool the gargoyles into
believing the player(s) entering are monks/mages returning
to their home.

Once inside, the area is largely pure killing grounds.
Outside of the monastery is an old graveyard, both are
surrounded by a grove of dead oaks. The monastery is
guarded by a variety of nasty npc's (though not that
large). The Wise was not composed of only 'good' orders,
and this was the home of one of the not-good orders.

Contained within the monastery is a sort of double-edged
sword of a quest. A scroll will be found in the lower
levels describing a ritual that will result in untold
fortune and power. Most players will go ahead and figure
out how to perform the ritual (which is, in fact, a quest),
but the ritual will summon a demon that will break loose
from the player's control, and go on a killing rampage
until the player figures out how to stop it (the second
quest). Each demon is unique to the player who summoned
it, and will vanish when that player logs out (to reappear
when the player logs in again).

The ritual requires 'a token of wealth' (a platinum coin),
'a token of ancient strength' (a magic sword predating
the Age of Legend which is found in the graveyard), 'a
token of he who is to gain power', (some of the player's
blood), 'bound in the absense of light' (a black cloth
found in the monastery), and 'joined in the blood of
the land' (immerse the bundle in a magma pool beneath
the monastery).

Items for the summoning ritual:
 - Platinum coin: Nothing tricky here, a normal platinum
                  coin will do.
 - Magic sword: The sword is somewhat difficult to
                obtain. Texts found in the monastery
                will refer to the 'Defender of the
                Order', basically a blademaster who
                defended the monks/mages. Players must
                find his grave in the graveyard, then
                fight his skeleton to obtain his sword.
 - Black cloth: The black cloth will have to be constructed,
                in a matter of speaking. Players can find
                white robes stashed away in sealed containers
                in a storage room. They must take one of
                the robes to a spring behind the monastery
                which is the source of black water (poison
                if the player's dumb enough to drink it).
                Dip the white robe in the black water and
                it becomes black, which the sword and
                plat have to be wrapped in.
 - Player's blood: Nothing special here, except that a
                   specific ceremonial dagger must be
                   found for the player to cut the palm
                   of his hand with, then drip the blood
                   onto the bundle of previously assembled
                   items.
 - Magma pool: Nothing challenging here, simply drop the
               package into the magma pool at the base of
               the monastery.

An incantation must be recited here, and there is a dis
check to see if the player has the nerve to stick around
as the magma pool begins bubbling and boiling. Soon a
demon will appear and being slaughtering everything in
sight, and will wander continually as far as he can go
until the player logs out. The demon won't follow the
player around, however, but he will try to kill the player
if they should stumble across one another. The demon will
also return if the player logs back in.

The Banishing:
The second quest is for the players to get rid of the demon
they conjured in the first one. The demon cannot be killed,
and in fact 'death' only makes it more powerful. The banishing
is actually quite a simple action. The player merely has to
reach in and remove the coin/sword/cloth bundle from the
bottom of the magma pool. Players start by finding a text on
banishing from those present in the libraries. Banishing
requires that the demon be present in the room, so the
player must also discover how to summon the demon to the
magma pool, and how to bind it while the player retrieves
the conjuring bundle from the magma.

Summoning requires speaking the creature's name, which
the player can discover by casting ashes across the magma
pool.

Binding requires using salt to draw a triangle inside a circle
inside a square on the floor, and summoning the demon from
within the triangle. The salt can be scraped from a tidal pool
in the rocks near the shipwreck southwest of the monastery.

Retrieving the conjuring bundle from the magma requires the
player to first purify the black spring by dropping a special
diamond (found in the monastery) into the spring. This will
purify the water for a minute or two. Then the player must
fill a chalice from the spring, intone another incantation,
and drink from the chalice. The effects will again last only
a minute or two, so should be done after summoning and binding.
The player will feel his blood turn to icewater, and will
be able to reach into the magma pool to retrieve the conjuration
bundle. The bundle will by now have been transformed into a
large, blackened heart. Killing the demon now is a matter of
just destroying the heart. The heart is actually an npc which
can be attacked, and has no physical attacks, just spell after
spell after spell (none of which are particularly damaging).
When the heart dies, so does the demon.