Message: 7
From   : Zuma
Subject: Ranger Guild Recode Ideas
CC     : Zuma
Date   : Thu Dec 21 06:39:52 2017

Finwe,

I was advised that I should send you some of the ideas that I had for a
'recode' of the current Ranger guilds. Many of these ideas might have been
shared with others several years ago, as I presented some of them to one or two
wizards several years ago. Forgive the formatting, I typed this in google docs
so it isn't Genesis mail compliant.

-Zuma's player

----------

Close RoN. Restructure RoI to be a wing or forward base of Gondor's fighting
force. (potential layman guild that adds stealth and such abilities)

Shift focus of guild to be based around Minas Tirith and Gondor as opposed to
Arnor and Ithilien.

Move guild to forest outside Gondor (former RoG headquarters). - potential to
move within city walls or within the outer walls, but a guild house already
exists and could be useful and cut down on re-coding rooms.

Restrict enrollment to those who are members of a Middle Earth Racial Guild: If
players are required to be part of one of the Middle Earth racial guilds, then
Herbalism and an auxiliary weapon skill are already provided from the racial
choice. Potential problems with this is include the lack of Herbalism training
present in the Rockfriends guild as well as the potential of Humans being
removed from a Dunedain House. In the case of Dwarves a work around exists in
the form of the Gardeners, but for Humans potential changes or a variation to
this code/rule might be required.

Remove spell casting skills, and spell casting abilities. - The men of Gondor
did not cast spells, this was never really appropriate in the lore of the era.
Improve alchemy skills used by the guild. These can take the place of healing,
and other current ranger spells. In order to limit the use of these potions by
other guilds, some of the most useful potions benefits should only be
applicable to individuals with the ranger soul.
Institute buff potions, such as haste, regen (heal over time), damage
resistance, etc. These could function much like maintained spell effects and
have diminishing returns for each additional potion use. - Would require new
tech. Potential of preventing offensive and defensive potions from functioning
at the same time to preserve balance.

Remove Brawl - Ability is dated and highly exploitable. It also makes very
little sense in the current game. The ability, while iconic, does not fit the
noble ideals and legends of the elite of Gondor and Arnor. It was also fairly
exploitable, in that it could be used to prevent NPCs from assisting their
allies, remove weapons from NPCs without killing them, Prevent NPCs from
re-wielding weapons after disarm timer is up, ect. (Replace brawl with a damage
special that is more on par with current balance of Melee Fighter guilds).

The removal of brawl and transition to a Melee fighting guild would require the
following skill adjustments:
Increase Defence and Parry skills to compensate for lack of spell casting and
the defensive bonuses that Brawl afforded.
Increase primary Weapon skill to Guru level - Requires the addition of a Guru
Quest
Possible addition of Two-Handed fighting
Possible addition of second weapon skill
Possible addition of mechanic to allow player to choose primary and secondary
weapon focus, allowing for player to create more than one type of character.
Removal or reduction of Hide, Sneak, and Stealth Mode - Removing or reducing
this ability from the OCC branch of the guild frees up some guild tax to be
spent in areas that are more useful in the current meta of Genesis at present.
Additionally, the stealth mechanic in Genesis is in my opinion rather broken
and useless against Player Characters who are larger than you. Most OCC guilds
have awareness levels that negate most of the stealth that Rangers use.
Additionally the lack of a Backstab or Sneak attack/Ambush mechanic in the
guild relegated this to a RP flavor skill. Side note: If the rangers are to
remain a stealth based guild, it is rather pointless to 'recode' and rebalance
them before the Stealth and Awareness systems are rebalanced across the mud as
a whole.
Remove Spellcraft, Life Spells, Abjuration Spells, Conjuration Spells, etc. -
These have no place among the armies of Gondor, they had no spell casters,
their healers were based around medicine and knowledge. 
Potentially remove Herbalism skill, this skill could be acquired by healing
focused Layman guilds, Racial Guilds (Dunedain, Noldor, Hobbits) , or the
Gardeners. 
Reduction of Tracking, Animal Handling, and Location sense skills. Narrowing
the focus of the guild would allow for for these abilities to be reduced or
removed to free up skill points and tax values for other skills within the
focus of Gondor.

Create a layman branch that is only open to the OCC branch, the Rangers of
Gondor/Ithilien. This branch could be based out of the current Ithilien
headquarters and would be based around stealth, tracking, and have a special to
make use of that subset of skills and abilities. Potential exists to give this
branch a modified version of Brawl, with Blind and/or Trip/Knee. (note disarm
is not included as it had the potential to be exploited and caused problems
with looting. Additional options for special include Ambush, an first strike
ability that functions like sneak attack if used from stealth, would require
successful hide/sneak and have a long cooldown to prevent abuse from bouncing.
Much of the current code for this layman guild can be repurposed from the
current rangers guilds. 

Using other OCC fighting guilds as a baseline the Rangers could be recoded to
fill a damage role that is in the second tier of melee guilds (less than the
Union and Calians) and a tanking role that is in the second tier (less than the
Monks). With the use of their potions and the buffs they could gain from them
they can have the flexibility to increase their offense or defence, but not
both at the same time. They would also have the ability to choose from a
multiple of Layman guilds, with the Heralds offering a healing option, the
Blademasters and Militia offering offensive options, and the potential of a
'Ranger' guild in Ithilien opening up the door for a stealth based guild to
round out their kits.


