Message: 462
From   : Finwe
Subject: Ranger recode proposal
Date   : Wed May 13 21:45:41 2020

The Rangers of the Westlands are one of the oldest guilds in the 
game. They were originally coded by Elessar back in the early days of 
the game, and over the years they have grown into a respected guild. 
Now, they are in need of updating. Below are the proposed changes for 
the recode.

Rangers will be a true fighter guild. Magic was part of the guild 
from the start because in the story, it was assumed Aragorn had 
magical powers from being raised in Rivendell. In reality, he likely 
had a strong understanding of nature. With the recode, magic will be 
stripped from the guild and replaced with potions. That's more in 
line with their understanding of nature and herbs.

Potions
=======
As rangers brew potions, the potions will become stronger over time 
but to a limit. Each potion will have a corresponding color that will 
become darker to signify its strength. Most potions will not be 
stackable either or sellable. Below are the potions:

Current Potions
---------------
- Avarywalme/Poison cure; Purple - Make this stronger since the spell 
will be removed. Also, when quaffed, the ranger will be resistant to 
poison and poison spells.
- Este/Health, Mana regen, Fatigue; Clear - Remove the mana and 
fatigue aspects from the potion. When first brewed, it will do slight 
heal, but the stronger the potion, the more health it will restore, 
up to up to a limit. Cannot be stacked, and there will be a cooldown 
period of 2+rand(num) minutes.
- Wenya/Strength - Improve potion so the potion will increase the 
Ranger's str by up to 5-7%.

ew Potions
-----------
These are some suggestions for new potions.

 Darkvision - Enable rangers to see in the dark, from 1-5 levels.
- Magic Resistance - Enable rangers to resist magic cast on them or 
in the room. When quaffed, it will negatively affect their healing 
potion.
- Haste - Enable rangers to be quicker and faster in battle.
- Fatigue Restore
- Smokescreen - A potion that is tossed to the ground. It will fill 
the room with smoke, allowing anyone in the room a few seconds to 
flee.
- Poison Cure - A potion that will cure most poisons when quaffed, 
and when its at its strongest.

As far as weapons, historically they have been restricted to swords, 
polearms, and bows. Now, they will be able to train any weapon they 
want. This will give them more options for weapons to use.



ABILITIES
=========
Campfires:
Have rangers be able to build campfires. As their team, or those 
they invite to sit around the fire, they will heal faster and their 
mana replenishes faster. The fires can only be done outdoors, and if 
enemies come upon them, they have a cool down period before they can 
defend themselves. Best to set sentries, I'd think. :)

Hunting:
They do have this ability already, but make it so the ability is 
more realistic. They will find animals based on their size, guild 
exp, and animal handling.

Brawl:
This skill is blocked throughout the game, and so has become a 
useless skill for the Rangers. They currently can disarm and blind. 
RoI can knee enemies, and RoN can trip their foes. With the recode, 
this skill will be recoded so it's not blocked. Currently, disarm 
will cause the enemy to drop their weapon(s). This would be fixed so 
the enemy is just disarmed, and afterwards rewields their weapon(s). 
They will get some new brawls, too.



Companies
=========
The companies will still exists with the addition of bringing the 
RoG. They will be the potion specialists.

Also, rangers will be able to switch companies. However, there will 
be a price and a cooldown period. Also, when they switch, their 
skills will drop down to apprentice levels. This way they don't 
always have all the skills maxxed out.

Currently, each company has its own Capt, Lt, and Sgt. This will be 
done away with. There will be one Capt with a Lt from each company 
as the council. Each council member will still be voted on by their 
company. And when a council member steps down, it will trigger an 
immediate vote.

Rangers can call a vote at anytime to have any of the council 
members replaced, including the Capt. When this happens, the current 
council member will automatically added to the vote.

RoI
---
The RoI are the fighters so their weapon skills will be have high 
weapon, fighting, defense, and parry skills.

RoN
---
The RoN are the spies of the guild. As such, they will specialize in 
sneak, hide, and awareness.

RoG
---
The RoG will come back and be the potion specialists.

Apprentices
-----------
They will only have limited skills, and thus, limited tax.

[1-467 abdefFhHmnpqrRsux.!?] (current: 462) -- 
Message: 463
From   : Raymundo
Reply  : Ranger recode proposal
To     : Finwe, Mona, Varian, Mayari, Johnny, Zhar and Petros
Date   : Thu May 14 02:46:24 2020

Evilfaced draconians do something similar. You unwield for a specified period
of time and then rewield.

[1-467 abdefFhHmnpqrRsux.!?] (current: 463) -- 
Message: 464
From   : Zhar
Reply  : Ranger recode proposal
To     : Raymundo, Finwe, Mona, Varian, Mayari, Johnny and Petros
Date   : Thu May 14 10:51:33 2020

So, as a Ranger player myself for a bit I can chime in on this.

Brawl is currently a very strong utility (obviously not damage) as
you have the chance for the enemy to drop their weapon to the ground.
This is mostly used in 2 ways:
1. You can take weapons from enemies Rangers shouldn't be killing
(good aligned npcs like Tom Bombadil, captain of the guard in Kalaman
and so on).
2. You can hide weapons on the ground when fighting common enemies,
this usually makes them unable to re-wield since they can't find the
weapon, resulting in permanent disarm.

Speaking of potions I think that Rangers should get a higher skill
in alchemy (at least 60) and their potions should require it. Ex
Rangers are mixing their potions in the SoHM for example. There's
plenty of Awarywalme and Este to be bought in their guild shop.
Wouldn't really be fair to tax Rangers for potions if others could
also make them.

And what Rangers lack the most is some way of actually doing damage.
They are currently great support option but many potential choices
for layman guilds are stripped from them as they are pretty much
forced to join Militia or Blademasters to have some damge output and
actually be playable (long gone are the days of people being happy
with roleplaying without having the killing power).

Regards,
  -Z

[1-467 abdefFhHmnpqrRsux.!?] (current: 464) -- 
Message: 465
From   : Zhar
Reply  : Ranger recode proposal
To     : Raymundo, Finwe, Mona, Varian, Mayari, Johnny and Petros
Date   : Thu May 14 11:01:49 2020

Forgot to add some more notes about potions since recently I've
been tinkering with ideas for some guilds involving alchemy.

If Rangers after recode would have really powerful potions and
that would replace their spells as a balancing factor there could
be implemented an idea of toxicity (think Witcher potions if you
played the game) that would go up as you quaff potions and go
down over time (so you wouldn't be able to just quaff 10 healing
potions at once and go to full health). This toxicity could work
in different ways. Either giving diminishing returns on potions,
preventing you from quaffing more or having downright negative
effects (taking away health instead of restoring it or poisoning
you) when the limit is reached. Rangers could be the only guild
in the game that could monitor toxicity for example and different
potions could have different toxicity levels.

Just an idea :)
  - Z