  The Apothecaries guild is a layman/craft option for players
to use medicine for out of combat healing.
Players would create various remedies with the use of alchemy
and medicine skills. They would later be able to diagnose
themselves or others and apply them to bolster recuperation.

Remedies:
1. Troll blood ungent - made from troll blood, alcohol and
  healing herbs, speeds up health regeneration.
2. Antidote - made from water and poison curing herbs,
  helps fight off poisons.
3. Invigorating pills - made from coffe beans and fatigue
  restoring herbs, for fatigue restoration.
4. Herbal extract - made from water, aspen bark and mana
  restoring herbs, speeds up mana regeneration.

Remedies are created using alchemy and medicine skills.
Alchemy is used as usual and medicine is used to determine
the strength of the remedy (used herb strength * (skill * 2).
With 100 in medicine skill (required 200 guildstat to train
this high) this effectively doubles the effect of used herb.

How does it all work?

1. Apothecary has to <adiagnose> themselves or another
  player. This requires a series of tests for health,
  mana, fatigue and poison. If target has less than 30%
  h/m/f missing it is TASK_DIFFICULT, otherwise TASK_ROUTINE.
  Detecting poison is always TASK_DIFFICULT.
2. Successful diagnosis lets them apply specific remedies with
  <atreat> if they have them. This applies the UNDERGOING_TREATMENT
  condition to the target for 1 minute, where every 30 seconds
  the effects of used remedies are applied. Entering combat
  cancels this condition instantly.
  In addition, even if apothecary does not have any remedies they
  can heal (medicine skill/10)% of target's total hp (up to 10% of
  total hp) instantly (this also applies the treatment condition).
3. It is not possible to diagnose/treat targets that are undergoing
  treatment.

Assuming that the player has 100 guildstat (medicine skill of
50), properly diagnoses all conditions and applies remedies it
would be equivalent of target consuming 2 mana herbs, 2 healing
herbs and 2 fatigue herbs over the course of 1 minute (where
normally players can only consume 1 herb every minute). For max
skill this is doubled.

This powerful effect is counterbalanced by the fact that it can't
be used soon after combat (adrenaline) or right before combat
(treatment would be cancelled) meaning that effectively the potential
target of the treatment has to wait approximately 2 minutes between
fights for it to work.

