The Ranger guild is truly tricky to implement since the lore
on the subject is relatively vague. There are Rangers of the
North like Aragorn, mostly solitary types who are on the
lookout for danger and Rangers of Ithilien, who fight guerilla
warfare against enemies of Gondor.

Technically they're just commandos and special forces of
Gondor military. Should we treat them as a fighter guild or
rather a ranger type? Even the name suggests ranger and them
being generalists who specialize in stealth and ambushes.

With all that in mind I think that they should be a ranger
style guild with higher emphasis on combat. Currently they
have some magic and alchemy but nothing in the lore really
supports that.

If it were up to me I would remove their spells and potions
entirely. Perhaps in favour of opening the alchemist craft
guild (see the ApothecaryIdea file I've attached) and just
giving them better combat options.

All Rangers should get a basic damaging special and another
one depending on which branch they belong to. Ithilien should
get ambush special to initiate combat and flanking maneuvers
when in team (similar to swarm but without move behind and
only working when you're not the one being attacked) while
North should retain brawl in some form (them being more
loner type that would serve more supportive/disruptive role).
Not sure what to do with hearing, it's thematically strong
for scouts but practically unused ability.

Proposed skills:
sword/axe/polearm/bow (mutually exclusive) 90-100
defence 75-90
parry 75-90
blindfighting 70
appraise enemy 70
tracking 70
hunting 70*
location sense 70
sneak 75
hide 75
awareness 90

*hunting skill is not used in the game apart from maybe
one or two quests. I support Finwe on the idea that Rangers
could utilize it somehow. I also don't think it should
really count towards the limit of skills in the guild or
be taxed.

With removal of spells and potions we can move the remaining
combat aid to specials and additional skills.

The above skillset would support the "remote troops" type of
organization that the Rangers were in the lore as opposed
to being regular soldiers or just scouts. If someone would
like to play the Ranger as they are used to they can just
join the Heralds of the Valar to get their healing and
cleansing spells (most of the spells are currently redundant
between Heralds and Rangers).

That's how I see it.

