ROOMS -
Nethosak is a city of immense marble structures, great buildings whose
entrances are flanked by columns carved in the shapes of triumphant 
minotuar warrriors.  Many of these are clan houses.
The house of Olrig was situtated far on the other side of the city.
The houses here were of lesser clans.  Nearby were shops, trade buildings,
and many smithies, for weaponry is in constant demand for an empire
bent on expansion.  All the buildings appeared clean and new, though
many were centuries old.
Orderly, nearly unblemished street.  The lane was was covered in stone
not unlike a pearly marble, so that it looked almost as though the
structures around were melting into the path.
In the distance, other, taller buildings jutted toward the sky.  The
tall, wide edifice with the arched roof was the palace of the emperor.
Up close, it very much resembled the clan houses, save for the great
roof.  Marble columns, a long series of wide steps, a few windows on
the upper levels...and the same blank, colorless walls that marked
nearly every building in Mithas and Kothas.
Flanking the palace-but from a supposedly respectful distance-were
two other large, even more utilitarian edifices. The rounded building
was the central temple of the Holy Orders of the Stars, where the 
high priest of the state religion resided.
On the other side was the plain, boxlike building that served as the 
central quarters of the Supreme Circle, the eight minotaurs who oversaw
the administration of the empire.
The Great Circus was as massive a colosseaum on the face of Ansalon,
perhaps all of Krynn.
He was welcomed not only by the smell of the sea, but also a rancid
odor prevalent in most minotaur cities, and especially so here.
Like most minotaur dwellings, it was little more than a cube-shaped
structure, two stories tall and surrounded in front by a stone wall
about three feet high.  A wooden plaque bore the sign of the minotaur's
clan house and his own personal marks.
Those dwellings, deeper in the core of the city and generally near the 
smaller arenas, were, more often then not, squat, single-room apartments
of an unremarkable gray stone.  They were stacked six high in some places,
more than a dozen per floor, and were not as immaculate as the rest of 
the city.
Live in the barracks of the great clan house.  In return for three year's
guard service, he had been given a clean, small abode.
Tall, wooden door.
Tapestries depicting the glory of Sargas, especially his punishment of those
who had strayed from the path, lined the walls between high marble columns.
Carved on each of the columns was the face of Sargas in his manifestation
as the Great Horned One.  The faces were all set so that they peered down
in judgement at those standing before the entrance to the high priest's
sanctum.  The huge iron doors swung open, and a solemn acolyte cald in the
red-and-black robes of his calling.
That's the emperor's palace.  Looks a lot like these buildings flanking us
only much larger.  These are houses of the lesser clans.  The great clans
are more to the north end of the city.
Area consisting of a number of functional but hardly appealing domiciles 
in which the lowest-ranking minotaurs lived.  The air was ripe.  Were dirty
and needed repair.  Only the streets, whose conditions were monitered by 
the governmen, were typical of the order and tidiness for which his race
was famed.
The buildings grew neater and more stylish as he rode a sign that they were
owned by high-ranking minotaurs.
North of the circus were the major land holdings of the great houses and
the clans considered among the most powerful in hte kingdom... as well as
the entire empire.
An inn with the title "The bloody axe"
Entered a market still busy with bartering.
They continued through the market, then entered an area where woodworkers
and smiths worked.
The major houses had holdings in various city sectors, places where
business was transacted, and members of the clan could retire when matters
demanded.
Knew the circus well, including the underground passages and gates.
Prison section of the circus.  A dingy, dark cell that contrasted greatly
with the clean environment of Nethosak.
Deep below the main part of the temple, in the special cells in which
declared heretics were once placed.  Walked past empty cells turning 
corner after corner.
Were the led out of the cell and down the corridor leading to the vast
field of the arena.  Four minutes, maybe five, to traverse the long
corridor through the menagerie.  The menagerie was generally guarded by
only a pair of sentries and one or two handlers.  Taken to a waiting area
that was barred.
The emporer was usually seated in a box at the center of the longer side
of the arena.  His box was higher than most other seats.  Beside him
would sit the High Priest and members of the Supreme Circle.
The patriarch was seated on a high-backed throne placed at the top of
a short dais.  Seated on each side of the huge chamber to which Kaz
had been brought were other elders of the clan.  Standing along the
walls were guards.
The main headquarters of the guard lay just ahead.  Because of its
importance, the headquarters were not all that far from the emporer
and the circus.
The woodworks were vital not only for shipbuilding, but in other
areas of construction as well.
Two torches lit the entrance to the temple, and two sentries clad in
the color of the priesthood stood at attention.  The doorway opened
from within, inside another pair of guards awaited.  An acolyte met
them after the doors had closed behind them.  The novice led them down
one corridor after another, gradually descending into the bowels of
the temple.  A relief of Sargas saving the first minotaurs.  Over there
was a tapestry showing him building the border mountains.  One image
showed Sargas raising ships from the sea.  They had passed only a
few sentries and never more then a pair at one station.  The entire
party paused as four sentries blocked their path.
The halls were darker here, only an occasional torch illuminating the
area.  Kaz was the first to reach the third corridor.  He peered
inside seeing little more then darkness.  These cells were far larger.
The torchlight barely illuminated part of a chair and possibly a small
table.
Hurried deeper into the temple.  ... was horrified at how many cells
there actually were beneath the temple.
He was in one of the smaller rooms behind the great audience chamber
of the high priest.  The high priest himself was seated in a chair
behind the wooden desk that was a perfect copy of the stone seat
atop the dais.
Had directed the artisans to carve the dragon relief that now stood
over the massive doorway to the audience chamber.
He stood on a ten-foot-high, ten-yard-wide wooden platform and it
begin to rotate under the power of a dozen or so minotaur warriors.
The door had been designed to barred from the inside.

LIVING -
Tall and short, dark and light.
Very little garbage littered the street and, even as he watched, a 
gully dwarf with a collar around his throat scurried to pick up what
he could.
Heavy battle-axes, carried them in back harnesses.
Most of his kind, who wore kilts and armor but little else, a cleric was
usually clad in a solemn black robe covering him or her from foot to head.
The hood and shoulders of the robe were crimson.  Both colors were said
to be favored by Sargas himself.
There was a faint clink of metal, indicating that under his garment the
robed figure was both armed and armored.
Members of the guard were generally recruited from the more fanatical warriors
in the armies.  This pair carried long swords as opposed to axes.
A variety of weapons that were all part of his training (Kaz)
Sargas.  It did not look like a cleric's medallion, however.  "Champion
of all," Kaz muttered, reading the script that circled the edge. "Hero of
the people."
A medallion given to the supreme champion of the games, the greatest warrior
of any of the arenas, including, of course the Great Circus.  The supreme
champion could challange the emperor to single combat for the throne, and
the emporer would have to agree to fight or lose face.  When the two met,
it was always to the death.  Combatants did not leave their rivals alive
to forment discord or challange them again and perhaps win the next time.
Belt of his kilt
Minotaur saying: We have been enslaved but have always thrown off our shackles.
We have been driven back, but always returned to the fray stronger than before.
We have risen to new heights when all other races have falen into decay.
We are the future of Krynn, the fated masters of the entire world.  We are 
the children of destiny.
The small dagger that most minotaurs wear on their kilt.
Some small children were playing sticks, a game in which one tried to trick
one's opponent into losing his or her staff.  It was a precursor to the
real training that would begin soon for these future warriors.  Sticks had
determined moves and and certain areas of the staff could not be touched
without a point going against the attacker.
Grand champions were the top gladiators of a minor circus, of which there
were eight in each of the two capital cities, Nethosak and Morthosak.
Only after achieving this rank could a warrior move on to the next level,
the Great Circus.
The gully dwarf had been trained to to perform certain acts of spying for
the priesthood.
The emporer was clad in an elegant robe of brown and red and wore a
crested helmet that was obviously used only for ceremonial purposes.
'Honor is our blood and our blood is honor.'  It's carved on the
outside and inside of the circus and every minor arena throughout the
land.  It's carved high in the walls of the palace and the headquarters
of the supreme circle.  It's even carved up there and in the temple.
Pinned on her chest was the badge of the guard, a circle within which
was depicted a watchful eye superimposed over an axe.
Minotaur locks were the best in the world.
Be sent out to sea without a cleric on board which was standard
practice back then.
The elite legions were marching in full dress uniform around the floor
of the circus.  Armor gleamed in the sun as hundreds of minotaurs 
marched in perfect unison.  Each unit carried high its standard,
emblems depicting creatures of strength.  There were those of the Bear
legion, the Lion, the Hawk, and, favored of the temple, the Dragon.
The order of appearance was based on the battle records of each of
these units, with Dragon inevitably first, but all were considered
stalwarts of the cause. Horns blared as each unit passed the boxes 
where the rulership of the twin kingdoms sat.  Cheers went up from the
different sections  when individual commanders paraded past.  It was a
glorious day for ceremony.
"Your challenger has recieved the blessing of the temple, as is
proscribed by law.  He has drunk the ritual goblet of wine and even
now awaits the summons to the fields."
As the emporer he was allowed to wear his ceremonial helmet into
hand-to-hand combat.
He was clad in the most elegant robes of the high priest, gold trim
and diamond sparkles making him glitter in the sunlight.
The funeral pier of your father.

SOCIETY -
Master Ganth's vessel
Patriarch of the house.
As with the emporer, the partriarch of the clan - who could also be
matriarch should a female achieve the position - was chosen by rite of
combat.  A council of elders in the clan usually approved any such match.
Emporers had never dared interfere with such important clan matters.

RELIGION -
His hood and robe were much like the acolyte's but decorated with a trim
of gold along the hood and cuffs and down the front.
A cleric of the Holy Order of the Stars
Sargas, the Great Horned One
Kiri-Jolith, the bison headed god of just cause.  The house of Olrig
was that god's bastion, which oftimes meant trouble with the state
priests.
