This document contains what is expected from the Steward of the Shire.  
It attempts to explain the duties and responsibilities of the Steward as 
well as some of the perks.

Description of a Steward
------------------------
A Steward is basically an assistant liege, having many of the same duties 
and responsibilities of a Liege.  As well as doing normal wizard work like 
creating areas, he (or she) along with the Liege of the domain, work 
together on where the domain should be headed and adding their input in 
creation of new areas.  The Liege-Steward relationship is a bit one sided 
though as the Liege _always_ has the final say in all matters dealing with 
the Domain.

Duties and Responsibilities of a Steward
----------------------------------------
Well basically a Steward is responsible for the well-being of the domain 
like the Liege is.  Dealing with mortal concerns bugs, typos, etc.. are 
part of every wizard in the Shire but the Steward is expected to take a 
greater interest in making sure the domain is running smoothly.

If the Liege takes an extended leave of absence, the Steward will be 
responsible in looking after the day to day operation of the domain,  
basically assuming the position of Liege until the real one returns.
This is to ensure that the domain runs smoothly in case the Liege has to 
go away for an extended time.

Stewards are involved in the drafting of new members of the domain. They 
have the power to accept apprentices into the domain but should only draft 
new members if the Liege has approved them or the Liege has given the 
Steward the right to accept new members into the domain with his 
consultation (This usually happens when the Liege is away for an extended 
period of time).

Stewards are expected to take a more active roll in helping new wizards in 
the domain.  All Shire wizards are expected to be helpful to new wizards 
here but the Steward is expected to go one step further and lend a hand in 
teaching the wizard about how one should code in the Shire.

This is the main part of the Stewards responsibilities, tasks or projects 
given by the Liege to the Steward.  Examples of tasks are:

    * Snooping mortals in a newly opened area to find bugs in code or to 
      see if mortals are abusing bugs or running other mortals through 
      quests.
    * Assisting the Liege in code reviews.
    * Assisting the Liege in making sure the documentation of the domain 
      is current.

Created by Igneous Dec 3 1997

Last Updated by Igneous Dec 3 1997
