The Amazons of the Silent Forest
(also know as the Shrews of East Calia)

   by Ckrik, Wandering Mage and Master of the Wind
                       &
      Baldacin, Surveyor of the Silent Forest

The Amazons are a band of semi-nomadic female warriors 
originally from East Calia and noted in the Caliana's
personal journal during The Passage as the Shrews.
They had a brief encounter with Caliana and her
wandering Wolf Pack when Caliana and her pack were
fleeing from the warlord Masthron. Some of Caliana's
band were captured by the Shrews while scouting the
bleak landscape of East Calia. Caliana confronted the
Shrews and earned her men's freedom by passing a
series of trials of strength, dexterity, courage, and
cunning.  In the process, not only did Caliana
establish a rapport of mutual trust and respect, she
became an adopted member of the Shrews' band. To mark
their newfound friendship, Caliana and Hermione, the
leader of the Shrews, exchanged gifts.  Hermione gave
Caliana a lance made from blue cypress found in the
swamps of East Calia and in exchange Caliana gave
Hermione a fine military cutlass provided by Caliana's
lieutenant Hurn.

Caliana and her pack settled with the Shrews, however,
the Shrews' territory in the harsh environment of East
Calia was not able to sustain the Wolf Pack. Soon
Caliana and her companions were forced to part ways
with the Shrews partly due to meager resources that
were available and partly due to rising tensions
between her men and the all female Shrews. Caliana
and her pack left East Calia, never to hear from the
Shrews again.

In recent times the already meager resources of the
areas under the control of the Shrews in East Calia
dwindled even further due to desertification of their
land. Once semi-arid forests and chaparrals were
rapidly becoming covered with sand and salt blown in
by dry hot wind from the Bleak Lands. Much of their
hunting grounds has become poisoned by the salt,
turning the land into a barren wasteland.

Discussions on whether they should stay within their
lands or journey to seek a new homestead occurred.
After long debate Hermione decided that their bonds
to the area were too strong to give up that easily.
She decided that the Shrews should stay though they
were all on the brink of starvation.

Azelia, one of Hermione's finest Shrews, was not very
happy about the decision to stay and disagreed with
Hermione rather openly. With Hermione's blessing she
and a number of the Shrews that supported her left
their home in East Calia to seek a better home. Many
perished on the journey, but those that remained
marched south through the petrified stone forest then
west into the valley now controlled by Argos.

When the Argosian first encountered the Shrews lead
by Azelia, they found it quite odd that there were no
men among their ranks. Minor skirmishes with the
Argosian military earned Azelia and her Shrews a
reputation for being the fierce female warriors
capable of marching in a phalanx and raining arrows
on their foes at will. However, with their numbers
dwindling, Azelia quickly sued for peace and agreed
to settle her Shrews in the previously uninhabited
Silent Forest north of the river Argos known for its
unfriendliness to those that wander into the forest.

In the language of the Argosians, 'a' (privative) and
'masso' touch, implies "not touching men". A-masso
then evolved into Amazon and the band of female
warriors who left their home and wandered into Argos
became known as Amazons of the Silent Forest.
