Spirit Circle, Elemental Worshippers, and Elemental Seekers Proposal
====================================================================

Currently the theology in Calia is based very much on Greek concepts
of the Elementals. There are four main Elementals. Lord Pyros (fire),
Lord Diabrecho (water), Lady Aeria (air), and Lady Gu (earth). Then
there is a fifth elemental that binds them together, Psuchae the
Elemental of Spirit and Shadows. The basic story of creation is that
the Four Prime Elementals created everything, but in order to bind
things together (called the Quickening), Psuchae had to get involved.
All life is bound together by the forces of the Elementals and the
Quickening of Psuchae.

This is important because part of Psuchae's domain is the Cycle of
Life, which involves Birth, Death, and Rebirth. This is a cycle that
cannot be disrupted. The theology continues to talk about how the
Undead break out of this Cycle of Life, causing unbalance to the
Cycle. The souls which were supposed to continue onwards to Death
or Rebirth (depending on how you look at it) have been corrupted.
The Clerics of Psuchae work to right the unbalance in the Cycle by
cleansing the world of the undead.

For the recode of the Spirit Circle, the idea is to bring the themes
of the Elementals together as they should. All are worshippers of
the Elementals and all should be under one Temple. The Spirit Circle
by serving Psuchae also are in close contact with the other
Elementals. The Elemental Worshippers are guided by the Spirit Circle
in learning the ways of the Elementals. The Spirit Circle are the
only ones who dedicate themselves fully and completely to this work.

In order to flesh out the theme, I am making SCoP a racial + occ
guild. Also, I am forcing SCoP to have the EW as their only possible
layman guild. They are also to be completely neutral, just like the
Elemental Worshippers are today. Along with this, I'm introducing
a free join guild called the Elemental Seekers. Below you will find
the proposed abilities for each of these branches.

One thing that will also need to be addressed is the lack of grinding
available for Clerics if their focus is on undead. One of the
requirements for making this work will be either upgrade or create
new areas within Calia which will afford Clerics the opportunity to
grind and grow.
 
Elemental Seekers (Layman)
--------------------------
Seekers are a free join layman caster guild. It provides very basic
spells and an introduction to the Elementals of Calia. They obtain the
ability to harness the power of the elementals. They obtain these
powers by praying and seeking out the Elementals. Like the Calian
Followers, the guild is not designed to be remained in. It is
designed to be a thematic introduction into the Elemental Worshippers,
the real layman full powered branch. People who are Seekers will be
able to interact with not just Elemental Seekers, but also those
Clerics of the Spirit Circle (OCC members).

  Elemental Spells
  ----------------
   Light (Fire)
       Provides one level of light.
   Lesser Heal (Water)
       Minimal healing abilities. Probably similar to consuming herbs.
   Summon Messenger (Air)
       A pretty standard messenger object to send messages
   Reduce Fatigue (Earth)
       Reduce fatigue for self. Similar to consuming herbs.

  General Spells
  --------------
   Guild Tell
       Allows members to send tells to other members


Elemental Worshippers (Layman)
------------------------------
Elemental Worshippers are their own layman guild. They also at the same
time will serve as the only layman branch that those of the Spirit
Circle can join. They possess all the abilities that the Elemental
Seekers have, but in a greater degree. Whereas Seekers merely call
upon the power of the Elementals, the Worshippers actually have a
way to summon the agents of the Elementals to do their bidding.

Elemental Worshippers have three types of spells. They are listed
below.
 
  General Spells
  --------------
   General spells are those basic spells that every Elemental Worshipper
   will possess.

   Teleport:             Teleport back to Elemental Worshippers temple
   Relieve Encumberance: Allows one to carry more things. This will be
                         pretty much the same spell that SCoP has been
                         using called "elefrinisi"
   Elemental Resistance: Grants resistance to the elements that are
                         related to the elementals. Most likely level
                         will be around 25%. Cannot be stacked.
                         (fire, cold, poison, acid)

  Summon Elementals
  -----------------
    The second class class of spells that the Worshippers have are called
    Elemental Summoning spells. Each of the Elementals that they summon
    has a special capability, listed below. Along with the special
    capability, each elemental can be used as a shield. These shields
    also possess different capabilities. Some are higher in AC, some
    cover more. The actual AC's and details are to be determined. They
    currently seem to give too much aid to the EW, and my goal is to
    bring this guild in line with what a layman caster guild should be.
   
    NOTE:
    Combined aid for summoning elemental, elemental resistance, and
    elemental special (see below) should not exceed the max for a layman
    caster guild.

   Earth: Summon golem, it can look into next room, carry things.
   Water: Summon water weird. It can bring water or alcohol. Ice shield.
   Fire:  Summon fire djinni, will create light for the caster. Shield
          harms attackers.
   Air:   Air elemental, It can be used as a scry spell.

  Elemental Special (no longer limited to one per person)
  -------------------------------------------------------
  Elemental Specials are the greatest power granted by each Elemental. They
  are so powerful, that they cannot be combined with other Elemental
  specials. This means that if you are using one Elemental special, you
  cannot use the others at the same time.
   
    NOTE:
    Combined aid for summoning elemental, elemental resistance, and
    elemental special should not exceed the max for a layman
    caster guild.

   Heal (Water)
     This is to be their main healing spell. It will provide a decent
     amount of aid. It will be scaled in such a way that
   Fire:  Attack spell
     This is the main offensive capability of the guild. It will deal
     approximately 50% combat aid. 
   Air:   Haste spell
     This spell will give the same amount of aid as heal or attack.
     While in use, one cannot use heal or fire attack.
   Earth: Increase Str, Con, and Dis
     This spell will increase Str, Con, and Dis to give the same amount
     of aid as the others. While in use, however, one cannot use haste,
     heal or attack spells.


Ethereal (Racial, SCoP only)
----------------------------
From the Elementals to the Spirit Circle and the Elemental Worshippers, an
ancient apparition of a kyrullian loremaster has appeared.
  "Spirit Circle, seperated you were, to study the ancient ways of the "
  "Kyrullians, to become entangled in the mysteries of Spirit, to become "
  "the Enlightened. Following your enlightenment, we changed you, you "
  "studied our ancient way of protecting the Cycle from the Abominations. "
  "Although much of the ancient kyrullian way is lost, much lore is yet "
  "to unravel, you have now mastered what only an elect few of the "
  "Kyrullians. You can infuse yourself wholly, become the conduit between "
  "the physical plane and the spiritual, you may now as sentient and true "
  "entities commune with It and act as Its servants in the prime planes. "
  "You can become, the ethereals. Ascend with this new responsibility, "
  "rejoin with your brothers and sisters, the Worshippers, learn and "
  "perfect their understanding of the Prime Elementals, and imbue it with "
  "your conduit of the Quickening. Become the Wardens of Creation, "
  "Clerics of the Elementals, and the Guardians of the Cycle, "
  "Ethereals of Psuchae. "

When a person devotes their life fully to Psuchae, Psuchae transforms
their body into an Ethereal, a spiritual being with a spark of the
essence of Psuchae. The Cleric thus leaves behind all that has defined
them in the secular world, and is thus free to devote themselves fully
to the work of Psuchae.

  Race:
   Ethereal - a divine creation of Psuchae

  Special Racial Ability:
   Ability to sense undead when entering a room. This will function very
   much like Gardener's lfind. Even if the ethereal cannot see the
   undead, he/she will get a message that there is one in the room.

  Spells:
   Evade: Spell to add 10% evasion to the shadow form
   Normal Form: Spell to temporarily revert to normal form

Spirit Circle (Occupational)
----------------------------
A Cleric will play two roles. In the world of the living, he is a
life guide, and one who is a team support. He provides aid to his team
in a fashion that allows them to fight faster, better, and more
efficiently. He can even keep them from dying. The second and more
important role that the cleric plays is that of an agent of the
SoulWarden. He is to liberate the corrupt bodies of the undead that
their souls may be returned to the Cycle of Life.

SCoP have access to all the layman abilities as well.

General Spells
--------------
Blink: Within a domain, transport to various locations. The idea is that
       this will replace walking, saving fatigue. However, it will use
       up mana.
Greater Teleport:
       Remember locations to teleport to. This spell will allow a
       cleric to travel between domains. It will start out at 1
       remembered location, and will grow in number as guild stat
       goes up. This is very similar to the PoT.
Confusion:
       Confuses enemies, makes target do random movements. Spell is
       currently called "syskotisi". I do not plan on making many
       changes, if any, to this spell. It is mainly used for
       defensive purposes.
Silence:
       Silence enemies for short time. Defensive spell against casters.
       Will be identical to current spell.
Cure Poison:
       Neutralize poisons. No changes planned for this spell.
Steal Identity:
       Steal names. necessary for dream scry. No changes planned.
Identify Item:
       Identify information for eq. No changes planned for spell.
Greater guild tell:
       Can talk to non-guild members also. No changes planned.
Greater Scry:
       No changes planned for this spell. A cleric can use dreamwalk
       to scry others.

Enhancements upon EW Spells for use in teams or others
------------------------------------------------------
Haste Others:
   The haste benefit from the Layman guild can be cast on others. Since
   it is the same spell, no stacking will be allowed, meaning casting it
   on another EW will not net any benefits. This spell will be the main
   team buff to be used for others.
Elemental Resistance:
   The EW also has resistance spells. These same spells will be able to
   be cast on others. Since clerics also serve another Elemental, Psuchae,
   they will also get death magic resistance and general magic
   resistance added to their list.
Heal Others:
   This healing spell should be the best healing spell in the Realms.
Reduce Encumberance for Others:
   This will be the same as the EW spell, except that you can cast it on
   others.

Other Team Buffs
----------------
Reduce panic - Same as current SCoP
See Invis    - Same as current SCoP
Dark Vision  - Same as current SCoP
Death Ward:
     Gives a person protection from death for 30 minutes
Resurrection:
     resurrects a person who died while with a death ward within
     30 minutes. Very costly to both caster and resurrected
     person.

Undead Focused Spells
---------------------
Shadow Wall: 
    Create a wall that when undead walk through, con drain,
    panic, fatigue. No changes planned except for removing alignment
    focus.
Slow Undead:
    Reduces haste, slows ability for undead to flee. Will behave
    like a one second block per each attempted exit. Small
    clerics can use it to flee, while larger ones can use it
    to ensure the undead do not flee.
Protection from Undead:
    Damage originating from undead will be reduced. Because shadow form
    evade is now a racial ability, it is significantly less than what
    it is currently. Meaning, clerics will be less able to tank living
    things. However, they will be better able to tank undead things
    using this spell. This spell will enhance their shadow form.
Turn Undead:
    Con poison and undead fear aura in presence of cleric. The actual
    logistics have to be worked out still regarding how to do the fear
    effect. Nav has suggested using the Necro model of forcing them
    to go away 5 exits. I would like to maintain the theme of an
    undead being unable to be in the presence of a powerful cleric.
    ie. aura. but at the same time, don't want the undead to be unable
    to do anything.
Heal Undead:
    Actually causes great harm to the undead through magical aid. This
    is currently and will be the main damage spell against undead.
Spiritual Hammer:
    Essentially the sfyri hammer. However, the hammer is now limited to
    fighting undead only. It is held and thrown dealing great damage to
    undead. Main melee ability against undead and only way they can
    really grind.
See Undead: Life Aura ensures undead can be seen. Essentially acts as
            a counter to undead invisibility and darkness.

Issues to be to discussed
=========================
1. How can we make Resurrection non-abusable for quests, PvP, etc?
2. How should the fear for Turn Undead actually work?

