The Spirit Circle of Psuchae guild wizard introduction.

  The Spirit Circle of Psuchae will be a good aligned 
occupational clerical guild that will also take the players
layman slot (making them layman clerics as well). As for the 
reasons why, I shall go into a bit of detail about 'what' 
Psuchae is and why you would need to devote your entire life 
to worshipping Psuchae. This information will eventually be 
re-written into some type of material for the mortals as well.

  "Psuchae is all that that surrounds us, and all that lies in the
  great in-between. What is Shadow but that which stands between
  light and void, a twilight that defines the the edges of those
  things that have no edge?

  Psuchae is neither male nor female, yet at the same time both,
  for as shadow lies between light and darkness, absence and
  existance, so it is that Psuchae is neither Lord nor Lady,
  maintaining the balance of the other Four.

  It is Psuchae that links the Elements together, binding them as
  the para-elements and the quasi-elements. Should the fog and mist
  be the domain of Aeria or Diabrecho? Should lava be reigned by
  Pyros or Gu? Through the mysteries of Psuchae, the definitiveness
  of separate elements can be blended together in an exquisite dance.

  And when we, as spirits, enter and leave the mortal realm, it is
  Psuchae that can acts as our beacon and escort. Diabrecho, Gu,
  Aeria, and Pyros, rule supremely over the elements of the physical
  world as wel know it, but beyond lies the celestial reaches and
  the spiritual realms. These places cannot be reached by fire or
  sea or sky or land, and thus it is Psuchae's domain we must
  enter.

  I have sometimes wondered why Psuchae is not served with the
  other four of the Elementals within the Elemental Worshippers.   
  I do believe that Psuchae's mysteries require a vast wisdom 
  that cannot be fully embraced by most of those who serve there, 
  as such service would almost assuredly require one's full time 
  pursuit as a priest in order to truly comprehend such deeper truths."

  The members will divine powers from Psuchae in order to pass on the
teachings of Psuchae upon the world. They will be housed in a temple
in Calia, most likely west or south of Argos. They shall be clerics 
in the AD&D style of clerics. They shall have to pray for their spells
upon login and will be restricted to the amount of spells they have
depending on their ranking within the guild.

  They will have several skills to learn (spell forms), plus a guild
skill (SS_ELEMENT_SPIRIT), and spellcraft along with some other 
miscellaneous skills (alchemy, herbalism, awareness). They will be
allowed to wear any armour, but only wield weapons that are of the 
bludgeoning type. For this reason, I have chosen their weapon skill 
to be club. They will also train some in defence and parry as well. 

  They will have a varied range of spells, but very few offensive
(damage dealing). Examples of their spells are a tell line, detect
magic, heal, and soul strike (damage spell). These spells will be
split up into eight different levels.

  There are three levels in the guild: Apprentice, Master and 
Elder. Apprentices study under a mentor who must be at least 
Elder level. Apprentices only get access to the first three levels
of spells. Master members will get access to the first seven levels
of spells. Only Elder members will have access to all eight levels
of spells. 

  The guild will have a council consisting of three members. This
council will have the ability to ban members from training, ban
them from using their spells, or even expel them from the guild.

  Two restrictions that the guild will have hardcoded are that the
members won't be able to speak (except through their familiar 
(conjurable by a spell)) and they will not be allowed
to drink alcohol at all (if they do, their spells won't work). They will
be able to speak to each other psychically, but only members in the 
room will hear the speech.

 



