Ideas for making Sparkle a "living city":

--------------------
NPC DIALOGUE
--------------------

Much of my philosophy of game design draws on my early experiences with the
seminal roleplaying games of the early home computer age. Specifically, I
deeply appreciated the Ultima series of games that I played on my Apple
computer as a youth. These games featured dialogue trees with npcs into
which the player could deeply delve. Ultima IV was my first game of the
series, and the npcs in that game worked essentially like this:

<talk> command to npc: npc gives default response with a few keywords.
<ask keyword> to npc: npc gives response to that keyword with a few more
                      keywords that are now made known.

A few keywords were never mentioned by the npcs, but were simply ones that
all npcs responded to. Such things as "job", "townname" (whatever town
they lived in), etc etc ... 

In Genesis, we don't have a <talk> command, and so we use the chats to
allow our npcs to put forth a bit of information with keywords for the
players. All npcs in Sparkle should allow for deep exploration of the
keywords an npc mentions in their chats or responses to asks.

Universal keywords we should have all npcs in Sparkle respond to:

    "job" / "occupation" / "work"
    "family"
    "sparkle" / "city" / "town"

In general, we should try to design relationships between various npcs
in the city. There should be families, friends, lovers, rivals, enemies,
etcetera.

--------------------
NPC DAILY ROUTINES
--------------------

I would like to design and implement the passage of time in Sparkle. One
idea is to have each hour of RL time represent one 24 hour day in Sparkle,
with an hour of Sparkle time lasting 5 minutes of RL time. The technical
design of such a system should be discussed by the code-grinders. My own
thoughts are that we either have a master object that triggers things in
the city based on time, or that we have a running clock that anything can
inherit through which individual rooms/npcs/etc can trigger based on the
passage of time.

Ultima IV had static npcs. They never changed position, and were always
standing in the same place all day and night. This changed in Ultima V.
Ultima V was the first game I had played where the npcs ... lived. They
had routines for each day. They would go to work at 7 am and go home at
5 pm. They would be sitting in a chair reading from 8-9 pm and then be
sleeping in bed from 10pm until 6 in the morning. Each npc had a unique
routine that caused them to really feel alive. You had to follow the
npcs around to get a feel for their routine. Sometimes you only were
able to talk to npcs about certain things in certain places. For instance,
if a meeting was taking place at midnight at the well for an underground
resistance movement, only at that time at that place could you talk to
the npcs about certain things.

Each npc in Sparkle should do this. We should have our npcs live out their
days. In terms of having things "close down for the night" ... we do not
want to go for true realism. The banks of Minas Tirith are an example of
a good idea that doesn't lead to good gameplay. You have to literally
sit and wait forever for those damned things to open if you catch them
right when they close. I think npcs in Sparkle should close shop and
go to bed. However, I think this should be a very brief thing. I think
we can make it so that Sparkle is not like Earth. On earth, we need
6-8 hours of sleep to feel rested the next day. In Sparkle, you simply
need a good hour. Therefore, at some point in the day, each npc in
Sparkle goes to get their rest period. This can be different for each
npc, but I do think we should close down services for those 5 minutes.
This is also a good opportunity to follow npcs around and see where they
live.

We should obviously have numerous npcs in town that don't have anything
to do with running a shop. They simply live lives, and we can do all
sorts of cool things to make this interesting and fun to be a part
of. Perhaps there are guilds or clubs you can only join if you catch
a certain meeting of npcs, or this or that. We can get extremely
creative with this.

More to come ...
