Rebalancing the SCoP (long).

This letter is a proposal for rebalancing the Spirit Circle of Psuchae, a
cleric guild in Calia. It was quickly designed and put into the game by Jaacar
last fall, and is now facing numerous issues as I will outline in the
following. I'm going to to start off with some general thoughts on guild
balance, then move on to each of the individual spells - explaining what they
now do, then detailing the changes I want to make, if any. Their skills are
fine as they are, no changes necessary there.

Guilds need to be designed according to an overarching design. The creator must
ask: what will a guild member do in combat? What do they excel at? What is the
experience of playing as a guild member like? One gets the feeling, looking 
through the SCoP spells, that no such design was performed. Had the gameplay
experience of the current guild been analysed, the current problems could have
been avoided. I consider this not only a failure of Jaacar's, but also of
balance - someone should have caught on to the fact that the guild is barely
playable. There's no point in pointing fingers and assigning blame, but these 
problems need to be addressed quickly, if the guild is to survive. Right now
the members feel like they're in a roleplaying club, and are surviving pretty
much on the strength of their weapon creation spell and decent combat skills.

I'm sure the guild could benefit from a complete redesign of their spell
selection. I have no intention of doing that though - what I want to do is 
work with the spells they currently have, doing a few changes and some power-
ups, in order to make the guild playable. A complete overhaul would take too
much time (like I said, the guild needs change fast) and I do have other 
projects I'd like to work on.

A note on components: nearly all the spells in the guild uses gems as
components. The gems are either used by themselves, or combined with a herb
in order to produce a component. Given the difficulty of finding gems, Jaacar
thought to balance this by having a gem shop in the guild that would produce
a small amount of gems every time it reset. This does not translate into good
playability for the members. For one the shop does not save anything over 
armageddon. Even if it did, it does not produce anything close to enough gems
in order to supply members. Even if it did produce plenty of gems, you're
still facing a huge money investment just to use the spells, and you're offered
no predictable way in which to collect specific gems. My solution to this is to
introduce a percentage chance of the gems/components surviving a casting. This
could vary from high to low depending on the power of the spell and how often 
it is intended to be used.

I used the following key when rebalancing (1 weakest, 5 strongest):
Offensive power - 3 (4-5 vs undead)
Defensive power - 2
Healing power   - 4
Various utility - 3

This is what I feel the guild powers should be like. Current offensive power 
is 1 vs everything, defensive power 1 and healing/utility 3. Approximate 
values of course, this is just to give an idea of where I'm headed with this.

I'm not stating every spell variable here. Casting time, casting difficulty and
mana cost can be used as balancing tools later on. I'm not proposing any major 
changes in those variables for the moment. Also note that this is not a final
proposal. Other good ideas may come up while I'm implementing it - if they do
I'll bring them up with you on an individual basis. I'm planning to put these
changes into the game gradually, not all at once. Like I said, speed is of the
essence, and members will enjoy seeing gradual improvement.


				The spells:

Healing (two spells):

-Therapeaou (cure wounds)
This is a standard hit-point healing spell. It's fairly powerful and a mainstay
of the guild. It can heal up to 600 hp at the most. The only thing I want to 
change about it is the component. It currently uses a pearl as a component. 
This is a signature spell that is meant to be used often, so I propose a 90% 
chance of the pearl actually surviving a casting of the spell.

-Giatreou (neutralize poison)
A cleansing spell that can affect any type of poison. Members have complained
that this spell is rarely effective, but to me it looks rather powerful. I
don't think any change should be made here for the time being, except perhaps
to make it less random. It currently uses the rare gem yellow topaz. This is
fine, but there should be a 70% chance of the gem surviving.


Utility (twelve spells):

-Exevrisko (detect alignment)
No proposed change.

-Magikos (identify magic)
No proposed change.

-Fos (light)
This spell produces two light levels, and uses a quartz gem. Change it so the
gem survives 80% of the time.

-Synithis (summon familiar)
This is just a roleplaying tool, the familiar does not do anything substantial.
No proposed change. 

-Psychi (tell line)
The spell uses no component for inter-guild tells, but a quartz gem otherwise.
I think it's reasonable that the gem should survuve 90% of the gem.

-Gsechon (name forget)
The target forgets the caster's name. This spell does consume a gem, but I
think that's fine for a spell that will be used only rarely. No proposed
change.

-Siopi (silence)
The target gets LIVE_M_MOUTH_BLOCKED. Useful against spellcasters and to ward
off annoying chatter from fools. It uses a Lapis gem. Change it so the gem
survives 70% of the time.

-Skiamati (shadow eyes)
This spells allows two levels of darkvision, and a 20% chance of a single 
level of seeing invisible. Component is an alexandrite.
Rather underpowered spell. I propose a three-tiered spell here. Perform some
sort of check at casting, depending on stats/skills/guild level and a random 
element:
Result 1: 2 levels of darkvision.
Result 2: As above, plus a level of seeing invisible.
Result 3: As above, and only applicable if caster is in shadow form (see
          below), creates a level of darkness that follows the caster.
It should be balanced so that, for an experienced member, result 2 is the 
most likely with result 3 some of the time. 80% chance of alexandrite 
surviving (it's a really expensive gem).

 -Anakalo (word of recall)
This limited teleport spells allows one to mark a location, then later teleport
to that spot. Alternatively the caster can specify to simply be teleported 
back to the temple. You combine a chalcedony (gem) with a breadroot to create 
the component for the spell. Here I'd like 80% chance of the component 
surviving. Otherwise no change.

-Anagnoriz (true identity)
This spell allows the caster to learn the name of a target. The caster can 
remember the name. The spell uses a black diamond (!) as a component. As an
additional penalty for this effect, the caster is paralyzed for 60 to 90 
seconds and loses 100 hp. 
The cost of this spell is outrageous. In my book this effect is little more 
than a cantrip. I want to do away with all the paralyzation/lose hp stuff, move
the component to a lesser gem and only have a 50% chance of the gem to be 
consumed.

-Skiamorfi (shadow form)
In game terms, this spell currently does very little. It's a disguise spell, 
allowing the caster to remain anonymous even to people who know him/her.
While it's active, it sucks mana from the caster at regular intervals. The
component is made by combining an amber gem and a cranberry.
I want to change this a lot and make it an integral part of their abilities. 
It's one of their most unique spells, so let's run with it. In addition to 
boosting the power of the Skiamati spell, as above, I want it to be a 
requirement for casting the Energia spell below. It should also grant
abilities in its own right. I want it to have tiered results, as per the 
Skiamati spell:
Result 1: As a result of being less substantial, the caster's defensive skills
	  are boosted and his/her offensive skills are reduced. Hide and sneak 
	  skills are also improved.
Result 2: A minor AC shield is granted in addition to the above.
Result 3: Some magic resistance is granted in addition to the above.
Result 4: Caster gains a level of invisibility for the spell's duration. Caster
	  becomes visible if he/she enters a room with more then two light 
	  levels or ends up in a fight.
Result 3 should be regularly achievable for experienced members. The component
should stay the same, and be consumed upon casting.

-Metaballo (weapon conversion)
This spell converts any weapon into a glowing staff usable by the guild
members (they can only use bludgeoning weapons). The staff gets 95% of the hit
and pen of the converted weapon. Max is 60/60. Component is made from the gem
red spinel and sargassum. 
This is the only spell that I feel is currently overpowered. Right now the 
members depend on the spell to survive, but with offensive spells that actually
do something such a powerful weapon spell is no longer required. What the 
members do now is use it on the boulders wielded by giants in Sparkle, getting
them a straight up 47/60 weapon (the boulders are 50/75). This makes using 
other weapons pointless. I want to change this so that the power of the staff
created depends not only on the hit/pen of the target weapon, but also on that
weapon's value, and the caster's skill and stats. I want to balance it so that 
a servicable - good weapon is created, but no so good that hunting for a better
club is pointless. Component can stay the same.


Offensive spells (four spells):

-Vekpos (turn undead)
A weak spell, this makes the target undead creature run away, if successful. 
The undead creature can be made to run away up to four times, before this spell
is no longer effective. Of course, the undead creature is free to come back 
again immediately. Component is a skull.
I want this spell to be a powerful weapon against the undead. In addition to
running away, undead affected by the spell should autimatically flee whenever
they enter the vicinity of the caster for a duration. Also, I want a chance to
outright destroy weak or weakened undead. Let's say you perform a check like 
this: 
if (2x (caster's SS_WIS + SS_OCC) + 5x spellcasting_success (0-100 value))
    is greater than (5x target's LIVE_I_UNDEAD prop + target's remaining hp).
then undead is annihilated.
This will make the spell useful in finishing off undead foes. Component needs
to be upgraded in light if this change. Use a moderate gem with a low % chance
of the gem being consumed. Turning is a core ability after all for this guild, 
whose chief foes are the undead.

-Apergo (soul strike)
Currently an anemic harm spell. It has a pen of 100-389, with a 30% bonus 
against the undead. For a 100 guildstat, skill maxed player, the average pen
this spell will have is 190. The pen is figured with a function that has high 
variance, resulting in the minimum pen a large percentage of the time. Using
a highly random function here is pointless, as hit_me already randomizes. 
Component is a ruby, a high-value gem.
My idea for this spell is to have it be a spell that does not affect undead at
all, as they do not have souls. Furthermore it should not do anything against
good-aligned targets. Evil targets are dealt more damage the more evil they 
are. I propose the following for damage:
200-500 pen based on caster's skills and stats + 0-400 extra pen based on how
evilaligned the target is. Someone at -1000 or lower gets the full 400, less
evil targets gets a proportion of 400 depending on how close they are to -1000.
The ruby can stay as a component, but have it survive 90% of the time (this 
spell is meant to be cast repeatedly).

-Energia (soul drain)
This spell is a joke as it stands. Touted as their most powerful offensive
weapon, it's currently weaker than even Apergo. It drains hit points from a 
target and transfers half back to the caster. It drains 0-300 hp according to 
3x spellcasting_success, with further limits on how big a percentage of a
target's health you're allowed to drain, as if that were necessary. Component 
is made from a sapphire gem and the sea bubble herb.
This should be their most powerful offensive spell, and as such I think it's
appropriate that it can only be cast while in the shadow form (see Skiamorfi
spell above). Instead of a damage formula based on hit points, I'd like to use
one based on percentages of current health. I propose it drains 15-40 percent
of the target's health, transferring half to the caster. That way, repeated
castings are less effective, and other spells or weapons need to be used in
order to finish off a target. Component can stand as it is with a 50% chance
of being consumed.

-Sfyri (spiritual hammer)
A bolt spell that can have a pen from 100-324. The pen here is figured 
similarly as it is in the Apergo spell, with high variance. Expected damage 
with 100 guildstat and maxed skills is 135. Since this is a bolt spell, there's
the added chance of the target avoiding a hit. The component is fashioned from
a garnet gem, a heart and a weapon.
This spell should have a lot more bite. I want this to be a good all-round 
damage source, with some bonus damage against the undead. My idea is to not
have this as a standard bolt spell, but as a spell that creates a spiritual
hammer. This (no-drop) hammer could then be used as a throwing weapon,
requiring one hand free for the caster. The idea is that a spirit is bound
within the hammer, and the spirit grows in stature as it is used in combat.
It will act much as a limited duration combat special, with a chance of 
hammer breakage on each throw. I'd say the pen of hammer throws could vary
between 150 and 500 depending on a lot of things, with a reset time of 10 to
20 seconds. Component can stay the same, except with a  caveat that the 
weapon used is a bludgeoning weapon.
