	The Horses of Terel

This document is a description of Terel's implementation of the Genesis
standard steed.  The code for the standard steed, by Fysix, is found in 
/d/Genesis/steed/* and is also used for the warhorses of the Knighthood
and wolves of the Red Fang.

The files for the project are all under /d/Terel/calathin, as follows:

./npc/terel_horse.c		  The horse object
./npc/terel_horse_saddlebag.c	  a special saddlebag
./npc/jonas.c			  the stablemaster
./stable.c			  The stable
./stable_corral.c		  horses for sale are cloned here
./stable_map.o			  mapping file for user-owned horses
./stable_stall.c		  user-owned horses are stored here
./stable_yard.c			  the exterior(has a cool water trough)

Available types of horses are pony, mare, stallion, gelding, and mule.
Stats vary according to the horse type.  Each horse gets one random
adjective and its race name is the same as the type.  This produces
names like "strong stallion" and "grey mare".  

Terel horses may be bought by any player.  The price ranges from 15 
platinum coins for a pony to 50 platinum for a stallion.  The player
can store their horse over reboot in the stable, for the 
cost of 1 platinum per storage.  If the horse is killed, lost or
otherwise not stabled, it is gone forever.

Horses are stabled at the cost of one platinum coins per rl day. The
first day's rent is paid at stabling, the rest upon retrieval.  Horses
can be stabled only for a maximum of seven days.  After that, the 
stablemaster cannot afford to keep them anymore and sells them off 
for his expenses. (destroys them).

No combat or skill advantage is given to the player by riding a
Terel horse.  However, there is a special saddlebag that allows the
steed to carry items for the player.  The saddlebag must be purchased
separately and cannot be stored over boot.  The horse cannot carry
any items into the stable, nor can it store any item over reboot.

The stable has several other features that can also be used by other
horses.  Any standard horse can be stabled there, not just Terel horses.
Stabling your horse feeds and waters them completely.  Steeds, as
well as players, can drink their fill at the water trough in the
stableyard.

There is some racial variation in player interaction with the steeds.
Goblins cannot buy, lead or ride any Terel horse.  All other races
can buy or lead them.  Gnomes and Hobbits can only ride ponies, and
Dwarves can only ride ponies and mules.

I think the horses serve three main purposes.  One, they add atmosphere
to the game, status for the character and gameplay for the player.
Two, they can provide a small advantage to the hard-working small 
player who saves up enough cash to buy a workhorse.  Three, they can
provide a considerable money drain to the player who buys
and stables horses for status, without working them as pack animals.

Trofast of Terel