Guild structure:

The idea was to have a Druidic Layman guild and a Cult of Morgion Occupational guild. That way member would still have atleast some abilities that would relate to the coverstory. And it would also benefit the guild, in the way that people could be allowed to join the Layman guild first, and should they be seen fit, they can join the occupational branch later. 
When some one joins the occupational guild, they still stay in the layman guild and keep their abilities. That way their loyalty will not divided either. Loyalty being very very important with this guild, to keep members from telling the outside of the real guild.
I dont think that people who joins the layman guild, and are found not worthy to join the occupational guild, should  be allowed to stay in the layman guild. It would be too risky, and there are really no point in having "hang-arounds".
In terms of in-game history, this structure could be explained very well. Since the first apprentices to the Betrayers, learned all they could from the 12 betraying Druids, and thus they have learned quite a bit of Druidic abilities/skills. 

I think with this structure we could have some contradictory abilities. Beneficial potions and spells from the layman guild, and the poison, disease spells/abilities from the occupational.


When a member is to be initiated into the occupational guild, we should blindfold him and lead him deep down into the underground Temple. When we have reached a far off room, we take the blindfold off him. Tell him that it is now his job to survive with the skills and abilities he have already learned, and then we give him a lethal poison and disease. He can then run around the underground Temple all he wants, being chocked about what surrounds him, and how he slowly dies. Ofcourse he should fail in cleansing/healing himself, and just before death takes him, he will have some grim visions of the Saviour, Morgion. And visit the real Bronze Tower, where he will be told what he is now, and what is expected of him. 




A Plan B?
I was asking Sven the question…what do we do when/if the secret gets out? It is foolish to continue to go around and pretend to be Druids, if everyone knows the truth. Or is it? 
Should we have a plan B for the guild. A mode which the guildleader at that time can switch to. 
A suggestion was that the guild do not try to hide their true nature, but instead employ some kind of guild-robes that can hide your describtion, and use their high sneak/hide skills to avoid being attacked all the time.
Or we could just continue to stick with the story, and hope that the hype will fade away, and that we can convince people with our persistency. 


Free guild equipment:

As Sven have already mentioned, shortly, in the last doc he sent, I had the idea of free guild equipment.
I'd like to elaborate on that, how I thought it should be payed for.
I would like if we could have (some) free guild equipment. A herb pouch, herbalist gloves, mortar, backpack for instance. And the way they should be payed for should be payed for is this.
All members can "sacrifice" gems to the shared equipment-fund of the guild. The value of the guild is then put into the fund. When a member takes a piece of equipment, the price for the equipment is then deducted from the fund. Ofcourse a member cannot take more than one of each item, each time he/she logs in.
The reason the that gems should be used is that it makes it harder to raise the equipment-fund. If it were payed with ordinary platinum coins, it would be way too easy for one member to donate 300 platinum coins, and that would last forever. Well almost :o) 

Why not just pay for the equipment in shop you say? Well, first of all I have always thought that it is somewhat weird to have a shop inside a guildhall, especially a Temple. And why wouldn't things be free, since everyone serves the same God? To have someone charging money for equipment for his fellow guild members…He should be thrown out instead. 
And this way, people can actually benefit from the actions of others, and hopefully strengthen the guildspirit.



Boosting  of Guild spell-power:

A similar system as the one described above was another of my ideas…Just based on boosting our spells/abilities.
The guild would have a "power-fund" that can be raised by sacrificing corpses, or maybe experimenting on the corpses to learn more powerfull ways to use our spells. In technical terms it would work like a normal fund, only the size of the corpse (Size of the NPC) would be calculated and added to the "power-fund". Again, people could actually do something for the guild and all its members. (including themself) And it would give the guild something "to do", as in the guild would require maintaince. 
The power of the fund should diminish with each spell used. And should also diminish over armageddons, so the guild cannot "stock up" and get really powerfull spells, but not using any spells for a long time, and adding to the fund.



Internal spell ingrediences:

I was thinking that maybe we could have some internal guild spell ingrediences. Like the Elementalists have feathers, rocks and vials inside, or right out side their door, we could have the same. 
How about we have a room with rotting plants, maggots and cut off corpse parts?
Actually speaking of maggots, I think we should have a very large pit of maggots, where the corpses for the "power-fund" should be thrown down into. Heheh :o) That would be funny. And then we could threated members that dont know how to behave, that we would throw them into "The Pit". :o) 

Speaking of ingrediences, I think we should go with Svens idea of infected corpse parts, as well as the internal ingrediences, we should also use herbs. There are many herbs that would fit our guild. Skullcap, Nightshade, Durugwath for instance. 


Initiation:

We could have more than one way of initiating a new member…All other guilds have only one way, why dont we have more than one to choose from?
We could use the one already mentioned, with the poison, disease and the blindfold. We could also throw initiates down into the maggot pit. Only for them to crawl out changed and utterly evil. (Sort of the like the Joker in Batman 1).
Another option would be to let them loose in a little forest, that they couldn't find their way out of, and we could hunt them in the woods. Only to infect them, when we found them. Or forcefeed them with Nightshade. :o)


Roleplaying focus:

I think the guild should focus on roleplaying, so I dont care if we are underpowered to be honest. Better to be underpowered than to be closed just after the opening. Also, as me and Sven talked about, the guild should focus on Krynn primarily. Morgion wants to take over Krynn and not Middle Earth, Avenir or Emerald. Members should be very aware of this.
Also, I do not think that this guild should use diplomacy in relation with the other guilds. Having all these weird positions, like a structured army doesn't suit this Cult, if ask me. We should be all for one and one for all. And everyone should be allowed to write books, train initiates or what ever. As long as they inform others of their actions.

 
Titles:

I think that simple unified titles would fit us the best. My initate suggestions of each member having the title of
Son of the Winterleaf or Daughter of the Winterleaf
Is fine. It symbolises that we are all for one. And it doesn't give away any signs of how powerfull a member might be. And last, it goes well in line with the things I described above. A guild without an endless list of postions, and a complex structure.
Regarding the Cult titles, I think we could go for alittle more flashy things.

My suggestion:

Each member gets to invent his/her own name for the guild. The name will be used at all times within the guilds. Outside, members will use the normal name. 
Following the self-invented name is a short title describing the members level. 

An example:

Mortimor 'The Prime Evil' and Founder of the Cult, champion, male gnome.

First the self-invented name in ' and then the guild title.
I see no reason to include "of Morgion"  on title since we are very well aware of what God we serve. And the titles cant be seen by any outsiders, so there are no reason why we should add this. 

An example of the list of titles, could be.

The Cultist (Level 3-6)
The Plague Bearer (full member)
Patriarch / Matriarch. (Advisors)
Channeler / Eye of Morgion / Prophet (Khiraa ripoff) / Mouth of Morgion / Voice of Morgion (Morgul and Shadow Union sort-of ripoffs)…I cant really find any good title for the leader of the Cult…yet. 

With the chance to invent your own name/title, I dont think we need fancy titles, or very Genesis like titles. I like the short, to the point, titles.
Ohh, and ehh, I presume Mortimor and Ruben gets a special title of all their hard work. A title like "Founder of the Cult" or something similar?? :o)
Maybe the guild leader should be the Patriarch / Matriarch…Might be a good title. Then the Advisors could have a different title.

Anyways, this was what I could think of at the moment, so I hope that you will talk this, and all the other things through Sunday, and I will try to make it, though I cannot promise anything.

Let me know if think any of this is totally useless. 






