s correct, it seems this one is unusually incorrect
    as it looks stacked in the favour of the player. Especially when the stats
    increase beyond 100. There is also a missing , before SKILL_END which increases
    it even further in the favour of the SCoP.
    I know this is very tricky but i'd like to see new calculations for this.
    Also 100 in stats and skill must always be used for calculations, even if it's not offered
    that high.

syskotisi     Confusion            Occ      0.57%
l - Do not set player to wimpy brave.
l - Combat aid needs to be calculated.
c - This needs checks to see if the player can actually see the target etc before he 
    does things.

tharos        Reduce Panic         Occ      0.57%
 - Needs to describe exactly how much panic it effects.  Which is 225, which is a
   very large chunk of the total possible panic of a 100 stat player.  For a class 3
   spell, that seems ok I suppose - it should just be documented.

therapeaou    Cure Wounds          Occ      2.25%
 - It shouldn't heal exactly the max hps, if it's being compared to PEN.  PEN isn't
   always the max number, it's often lower due the bell curve - the heal should reflect
   that, if it's being based as if it's doing 700 PEN.
 - The damage needs (like the other combat spells) to be based on PEN, not on hps.
   If it's balanced for 700 PEN, it needs to have a max of 700 PEN - period.
 - The 1/4 bonus, even if only on a random(1000) chance, needs to be in the combat aid calcs.

tihosskias    Shadow Wall          Occ      0.75%
l - Documentation needs to describe exactly what effects are (adding 150 panic to non-undead
    evils, or by lowering the CON of undead by 1/5).
l - Despite a player having to walk through the wall, there should be combat aid
    calculated for this and then reduced based on the fact that a player has to walk
    through the wall.  Reducing such an important stat as CON is a pretty big combat bonus.
l - I think the fact that SCOP can make undeads panic means this wall might have people
    running through it more often :)
c - Drain effect needs to be a magic effect. 
    Combat aid?

vekpos        Turn Undead          Occ      1.13%
l - The documentation should specify what the spell really does - 560 PEN damage to undead,
    and makes them flee from the caster for 45 seconds.
l - This spell is a bit convenient with the shadow wall, I think?  With two (non-combat)
    spells a SCOP can lower any undeads hps by 1/5.
c - Spell does 840 pen damage always. 
