Below is the mail Navarre sent for the review. Responses are inline
with the questions marked by author.

Message: 32
From   : Navarre
Subject: Dragonarmy Review and Feedback.
CC     : Cotillion, Gorboth and Navarre
Date   : Sun Mar 22 18:49:45 2009

Hi Petros,

I looked through the DA code, and I have some comments!

First of all. Great job! The ideas with the different dragon attacks
and the intimidate looks a lot better than what I thought when I first
heard of them. Good stuff.

I will list my questions, suggestions, in no particular order:

1) The wounding created with the impale, my understanding is that it
   deals damage over time. I hope that means it will also kill if the
   enemy drops below 1 hitpoint. Is that correct?

[Petros] Yes, that is correct. If the wound kills the person, they will
         die, just as a poison kills.

[Navarre] Great!
         
2) The docs doesn't list intimidate for the Red Army, only for the blue.
   Is this is a mistake?

[Petros] No, this is not a mistake. The Red Army has autoimpale, and
         multiple target attacks with breath weapon and wounding
         attacks. The special thing about the Blue Dragonarmy is
         that they can maintain their advantage even indoors, at least
         part of it.

[Navarre] OK, i can accept that.         

3) Autoimpale should be given some leniency as they don't get to use
   it on all enemies.

   They can only use it on those who attack them, which is by far not
   the most.

   How bad is the autoimpale now compared to before? 

   The autoimpale has combat aid set to 5 on damage, and 5 on stun, 
   the docs says 10. So that match.

   Now since the autoimpale cannot be used very often, 120 seconds 
   delay, and only on those that attack them. It seems like the damage
   part should give more damage.
   The stun of 6 seconds I feel is a bit too short, that's 1 combat
   round. If that's the max effort. That will hit like a big nerf to
   the current autoimpale.

[Petros] The combat aid is 5%. With 120 seconds that means that the
         hit that is made is at 24x what a 5% combat aid hit is
         normally. So it's a pretty heavy hit. As for comparing it
         with the current autoimpale, I think that we are upping
         the guild in other ways. Autoimpale as it is today is
         vastly overpowered with over 20 seconds of stun. 

[Navarre] I would have preferred a little longer stun than 6 seconds.
          But I guess I can live with this.

4) Can we slap some language on the DAs? Some weapons they favour
   requires language skill.

[Petros] Can you suggest something? I took the skills list
         directly from what you sent me before.
         
[Navarre] So the Dragonarmy has to learn to speak 'draco', so it makes
          sense to give them 40 in language skill.


5) Could we raise the Defence/Parry 5 more points to match better with
   the knights?

[Petros] Let's wait to do that until we have ascertained the levels
         during testing.

[Navarre] Ok, lets wait and see with this one.
         
6) What do the DAs have that counter the kheroism?
   Seems we lack a counter play to the knights in that regard.


   Looking at the knights balance.doc I see:
      "Fatigue and Hit Points portion of the ability don't grant any
       real aid because the Knight actually ends up losing more than
       they gain."

   I am not sure if that's an acceptable way of doing it. I can have a
   2000 hp nuke special for Rda, which is no combat aid if they end 
   up losing more than that? As in..  maybe hit them for 100 hp 
   each 5 minutes until I have lost more than 2000 hp?

   The heal is really a big part of the aid of kheroism, that it's
   not charged with combat aid makes sure that the DA will always 
   lose to a knight.

   And the knights are also immune to the dragonfear from the DA when
   you get up in ranks.

   [Petros] DA have a maximum combat aid of 100%. Knights have a
            normal maximum combat aid of 80% (kattack only). The
            normal advantage that they have over Knights is the
            balancing factor that I was thinking for DA vs
            Knights. They possess a dragon breath attack that
            bypasses armour, and have great versatility depending
            on the situation.
   
  [Navarre] Let us see how this turns out, we can always revisit.

7) Slash: The docs says 80% combat aid, the code says 75%.

   [Petros] I will correct it so that the code matches the
            documentation.
            
   [Navarre] Great!

8) IMPALE+SLASH: Can we remove the int factor from the equation of
   what it is based on?

   A lot of the members are goblins, which have low int. So it 
   seems to punish them by using int. I know that probably had that
   before but we have been trying to be nice to the guilds we changed
   to make it work on some of the stats they actually focus on.

   [Petros] It's already weighted very little compared to their
            other stats. If current DA members have been focusing
            on it, to remove it from them would seem kind of
            unfair, no?

   [Navarre] No :) We don't have anyone left in the DA that would
             have focused on 'int', so I only see this as a positive
             change. I don't want to penalize anyone from being goblins.
            

9) Dragonarmy_utility.c: It seems as if you can only get full use 
   of your combat specials if you are general or high officer.

   I don't like that. 

   There are very limited positions, especially these days with
   few members.

   I think it should be like it was before that only the weapon 
   skill is limited based on rank, as well as the size of your 
   dragon summoned. So to get sup guru weapon, you need to be 
   officer and have solved the sup guru quest.

   [Petros] The same scheme was used in Knights. In fact, only
            High Knights have the maximum available combat aid.
            This provides an incentive to actually rise in
            the ranks. Becoming an officer isn't a big deal,
            so most members who desire can achieve almost the
            maximum, which is required for most of their
            special attacks.
            
  [Navarre] Let us make it Officer to max out. And apply the same
            for knights.

10) Intimidate:

    We need to find a better description than "You find it a bit
    difficult to intimidate someone outside.".

    Maybe something like : "Summoning your dragon would be more 
    intimidating."

    To tell the dragonarmy solder that he cant intimidate his enemy 
    just because its outside, goes a little against theme, I feel.

    Similarly when intimidating someone on the exclude list it 
    currently says: Uhh.. You don't dare try and intimidate XXXX.

    I rather we say something like : "You decide not to try 
    intimidate XXXX as you know it will have no effect."
 
    Or, we could say that you try but that there is no effect. 

    [Petros] Yeah, this was something I had difficulty with, coming
             up with thematic descriptions. If you have any ideas,
             let me know, or feel free to rewrite the descriptions.
             
11) Impale the docs says: 65 combat aid, but the code says 70.

    [Petros] I'll correct the code to match the documentation.
    
I apologize if it seems like a lot of comments. Let us discuss some of the
points! :)
Again, great job Petros. Thanks for doing it!

-- Navarre
