
Teaming problems in steeds, Wout de Zeeuw, August 1997
------------------------------------------------------

Leave and arrive messages:
Team of 2 riders on 2 steeds: solved. The problem was that the horse
wasn't moved yet to the destination when the 2nd team member arrived.
So the team member didn't see his leader when he arrived.
Solved it by moving the steed first, which also solves the next problem.

Second rider is forced to execute the same command as the driver
when teaming and the team leader is also driving. But since the second
rider cannot move around he gets a "But you're not driving the steed."
message all the time.
Solved by this:
- set no_follow to 1 in the call of move_living in the driver,
- see if the driver is the team-leader,
- find the team members,
- filter out the co-riders
- move the co-riders and the horse
- move the rest of the team if no_follow was zero.
This solves the funny temporary solution of changing the rider's short
description so the rest of the team sees the steed in the destination room
when moving (see previous problem).

Solved: second rider (and beyond) are forced to execute the same command as
the team leader when riding. The leader is not riding himself in this case,
so it's a different problem than the last one. Solved by shadowing
follow_leader in the steed shadow. This might also be a solution to the
previous problem if it weren't that it would raise the problem that the
other team members would be moved before the co-riders are.

Second rider sees the first rider and himself already in the destination room.
Though a bit odd I don't see this as a serious problem.

The follow_leader function only works if it's called by the leader object.
So when I shadow follow_leader I cannot call somebody->follow_leader from
the shadow, because it is not the leader object making the call. Therefore
I put in the simple code: set_this_player(who); who->command("$" + command);
like in the original follow_leader code. The only problem then is that
wizards cannot be force this way. But assuming they won't be teaming a lot
with mortals it's not that serious a problem. It would be easier if the
leader check in follow_leader would be lifted.
