General theme:
    
    Telberin has been the center of elven civilization in Emerald for as long
    as elves have inhabited the domain.  In spite of a violent, tempestuous
    history, Telberin emerged as a premier capital in the realms, establishing
    itself as a trade center and offering the greatest in arts, science, and
    magical knowledge.  People travel from distant lands to Telberin both for
    business and pleasure.

Ancient history:

    The ancient history of Telberin is mostly told in the history of the KoT,
    one of the most influential groups in the city, past and present.

Recent history:

    Telberin was recently subject to a concerted series of terrorist attacks,
    obviously the work of the indigenous races of Emerald.  These attacks and
    the resulting fires destroyed major portions of the city.  Rebuilding is
    under way.  All non-essential persons have been barred from entering the
    city, both for their protection and to simplify the reconstruction.

City layout:

    Telberin is generally laid out as five concentric circles cut into four
    quarters:  the arts quarter, the scientific quarter, the magic quarter,
    and the mercantile quarter.

    The innermost circle is known as the Royal Circle.  It contains the royal
    palace, temple of Telan-Ri, the halls of the Keepers of Telberin, and
    various other government buildings.  A road surrounds the Royal Circle;
    this road is also referred to as the Royal Circle, a slight source of
    confusion for some travelers.  Telberin's four main avenues begin at the
    Royal Circle, each extending to the island's edge in one of the cardinal
    directions (after which the avenues are named).  These avenues form the
    borders between the city's four quarters.

    The next circle contains the famous gardens of Telberin, two distinct
    gardens in each quarter.  These gardens are meticulously maintained, at
    great expense, by the city.  The city even maintains practitioners of the
    magical arts to maintain the perfect beauty of these gardens.

    The next circle can be considered the business circle.  It contains shops,
    offices, etc. associated with the particular quarter.  The Ri Circle runs
    through each of the quarters, serving as the main route within and between
    the business sections.  Businesses not located directly on the Ri Circle
    are accessed by smaller walkways.

    Outside the business circle is a residential circle.  The residences of
    Telberin Island are exclusively luxury homes and upscale apartment-type
    buildings.  High ranking nobility, clergy, KoT members, and wealthy
    merchants make up the owners of these homes, which are generally maintained
    for convenience when on business in Telberin.  Many of the owners of these
    residences have estates off of the island which would be considered their
    true homes.  The most expensive homes are on the outer edge of the circle,
    overlooking the beach.  Residential sections are accessed by smaller
    roadways which connect to the main avenues.

    The outermost circle consists of the undeveloped edge of the island.  The
    beaches of the island are rocky, made up of small stones, smoothed and
    rounded by the surf.  Fishing and sailing are popular activities among the
    elves in the region, and Telberin's elite can often be found participating
    in these activities in their leisure time.

    The island is accessed from the mainland on the western edge, where a
    bridge extends from the West Avenue.  Telberin residents not affluent
    enough to own shops or homes on Telberin Island have them on the mainland,
    concentrated around the bridge.

The mercantile quarter:

    The mercantile quarter of Telberin hosts most of the shops and merchant
    organizations of Telberin.  Exotic goods of many types may be purchased
    there, in addition to more mundane goods.

The magic quarter:

    The magic quarter features a variety of shops dealing in magical goods
    as well as businesses providing a variety of magical services.  Several
    arcane societies also have their headquarters in the magic quarter,
    including the exclusive Telberin Academy of Thaumaturgy, which trains
    young elves in the magical arts for government service.

The arts quarter:

    The arts quarter is home to Telberin's art scene.  One can find small and
    large galleries, theatres, concert halls.  Outdoor exhibits of visual and
    performance arts are common.  This is also the home of the Minstrel guild.


The scientific quarter:

    The elves of Telberin pride themselves on their scientific expertise, and
    this quarter is the center of learning and scientific investigation,
    practical and theoretical.  The campus of Telberin University spreads
    throughout the quarter.  Telberin's grand clock tower is found here as
    well.
