From   : Gorboth
Subject: Cool idea for Sparkle!
To     : Petros, Novo, Styles and Aeg
CC     : Gorboth and Mercade
Date   : Mon Jul  7 17:16:58 2008

Hey Guys ...

The following idea appeared in the sysidea log recently. I think it would be
a cool thing for us to offer as something exclusively for sale in Sparkle!

----------------------------------------

Jul  7 2008 14:25 /d/Calia/palace/rooms/light/guild (Sinistra)
TAGS FOR BACKPACKS, PURSES ETC..

Greetings, wizards of Genesis.

The qarraba's from Sybarus inspired me to come up with the following idea: tags
that you can attach to your backpacks, purses, etc.
These could be small, just like the airport equivalent in other worlds...
Or large, so you can see from a distance.

I would like large tags, so you can put your semi-personal stuff that would
otherwise be dropped (ingots, bottles of booze, some clothes, herbs etc, that
are a pain to put in guild racks and get our every time you leave and enter
this world) in a large backpack and attach a big label to it.
Then you could leave that in your start-room..
Of course, it would depend on the kindness of others how they react to it, but
I think in a decent guild, one respects each others belongings.
It would also help if you forget your stuff or get killed, to find out for
others whose belongings they are.

Unfair beings could use those tags to mislead others or even place a trap
inside the backpack... 
Or one could think of a tag that also serves as a lock: you'd have to destroy
the lock or backpack, unless you have the secret code, key, whatever to open
it.
Or maybe some wizards could device a magic tag that let you snoop or eavesdrop
the room where the backpack is in.

I see great potential in it, but that's all up to you, of course.
Number 1 reason I would like those tags, is to drop stuff in it that I would
rather not rack, but will be dropped, making a mess if I just quit with those
items on me.

I would greatly appreciate some feedback on this idea, even if it was only an
acknowledgement of receiving this idea.

Sinistra

P.S. It is very obvious, but I just want to point this out: For use in a
droproom, it would be very helpful if you could label a bag 'sinistra' and then
type <get sinistra backpack>. 
