Idea by Nerull.

> Comments by Gorboth
 
                      It Came From the Hills
                      ----------------------


 THEME

 If you remember an old classic named It Came From The Desert, a 
 computergame in the 80's from Cinemaware, this suggestion take a similar 
 approach, only Genesis style/version. Basically, A meteorite enters 
 the atmosphere and strike the ground with great force, making a 
 huge explosion somewhere at the northern hillside of Sparkle.
 
> For consistency with the donut theme, how about a renegade donut hole?

 This meteorite contain radioactive elements that are spread around the 
 hillside and nearby areas, leaving small tiny drops of glowing 
 rock/material spread over a huge area. In northern Sparkle, about every
 player knows about the tiny ants that is living there and nesting 
 somewhere nearby. These ants, or more importantly, one of their
 queens are by some strange accident/incident affected by nearby 
 radioactive material from the meteor and have a few...benecifial but
 dangerous mutations.

 The new generations of ants are born at natural small sizes, but they
 dont stop growing until they approximately reach car/house-size, including
 potentially new queens. The result is inevitable for the other local
 inhabitants as the days grows warmer and the new nests are fully grown
 into huge deep-bored mazelike tunnels habouring a giant queen producing
 fullscale new generation of giant ants, and the story, or threat of the
 landside and nearby lands may become obvious.

 MECHANICS, ANTS

 While we know that incects simply cant be enlarged and still continue to
 live due to that they would die about immediately due to respiratory 
 issues, we will in good fantacy tradition ignore that factor(we love 
 oversized insects, dont we?). The ants of various types grow and changes
 with rl time, until reaching the last stage of growth, where their old
 hardened carapaces and other exoskeleton parts turn into potencial parts
 to be used as shields, weaponry. 

 How this will work will be ironed out during development, but the idea is
 to give the older bigger ant more potent versions. The oldest/largest 
 ants takes time to grow (realtime), from tiny to enormous so the most
 potent armour/weaponry avaiable will only be possible to harvest if some
 of these ants are given the chance to rise to max size. 

 If an ant is slain at a lower size, lower versions are avaiable that 
 corresponds to the size and power of the ant.

 Some sumarized ideas about the ants:

 -- Ants will be dropping items relevant to quests or/and delivery quests.
 -- Ants can be farmed for armour/weapons. Size and use varies. 

> I take this to mean that when killed the any has the carapace, arm-section,
> leg-section, head-section, etc that can be work like armours in its 
> inventory?

 -- There are different kinds of ants, drones, warriors, queens, reflecting
    a real ant hiearchy.
 -- Each type of ant will be given special abilties.
 -- All ants grow in size by real time. The biggest/rarest ant may take
    x weeks to reach maximum potential unless its slain while in lower
    size. This feature will make some items exotic by default, or/and
    more valuable.

> Cool! How do we maintain this over armageddons?

 -- Killing the queen should give some unexpected result, possibly 
    "resetting" the nest, making it dead/or ants dont respawn until new
    queen is replaced. This idea needs to be further finalized/worked out
    during development. The idea is that killing the queen should have
    an effect of sorts.

> Perhaps the death of the queen sends all remaining ants on a mindless
> rampage, running between rooms, attacking anything they see, including
> one another? :-)

 -- Occationally, ants ambush nearby places for x period of time before
    vanishing or being slain. This can be an autonomous event.

> What controls all this? Some ant control room?

 -- The ants are neutral of alignment. These care only about the orders
    of their queen and for the future of the nest. For them every  
    intruder is equally evil and something that must be vanquished to 
    protect the queen. 
 -- Some of the rare drops may be collected to X number, for then to be 
    delivered to some merchant for xp and/or buying spesific magical
    weaponry, armour or trinkets. This opens for gear you want as 
    reward, for certain level of effort.
 -- Some ants may serve as local bosses (sentries), that require
    certain tactics to conquer.


 MECHANICS, NEST

 The ant nest is a deep dungeon with different levels. Each level should
 contain some gamecontent that correspond with different mortal levels 
 within some limits that arent finalized. The nest is also a huge complex
 network of tunnels, storage areas, and possible queen locations. For
 every reset of the dungeon, or every death of the queen, her and the 
 main egg-chamber is randomly placed within one of many possible 
 locations so the challenge in order to find her will be more challenging
 and possible interesting. 

> Hmmm ... makes me wonder if we should use the dwarf mine code and adapt
> it to this. Check out /d/Sparkle/area/mines/

 Some sumarized ideas about the nest:

 -- The nest will have many levels. How many is undecided.
 -- Queen respawns randomly in one of many possible locations.
 -- Each level is suited for players in X range of average, within limits.
 -- Some exits changes with time(opens/closes).
 -- The nest will possible be submerged in darkness (-1).
 -- Stored food, treasure, trinkets, lightsources may be found in storage
    piles.
 -- Some areas/levels cannot be entered unless certain preconditions are 
    met(entrance quest/size reqs).
 -- Secret areas/side tunnels. These will have random exits/entrances, and
    may or may not include special or normal treasure, or even quests.
 -- The nest may have repeatable quests (quest xp first time, general xp
    second time).
 -- Dead heroes may be occationally found, still with their gear 
    intact, which could be different weapons/armours and trinkets, both
    magically enchanted and not.  

 THOUGHTS

 The dungeon is ment to be a place where solo players and team players can
 at various levels can enjoy. Everything that drops within will be useful
 to every player in the game and will not carry any restrictions like guild
 or alignment. Everything usable by players will be in equally chance of 
 distribution so no guild benefit more than others regards(magical drops, 
 useable drops etc). 

 This is just a short draft of the idea, and I would like to know what you
 think of the proposal.

> Sounds quite promising! I like the idea that the colony might grow and
> evolve randomly yet intelligently.
