From   : Gorboth
Subject: Sparkle Quest
To     : Styles
CC     : Gorboth and Tapakah
Date   : Fri Jan 11 20:08:20 2008

Heya Styles,

I've been working on the "backstory" for Sparkle, and I've come up with the
following quest. Comments welcome!

Concepts for: "The Quest of the Order"
Location    : Sparkle

Within the large and multipurpose city of Sparkle exist many iterests, some
for good, others for evil, and yet others which skirt the boundary between
the two. Though the majority of the populace are little more than peaceful
merchants and tradesfolk who thrive on the large amount of traffic the
City receives, all have knowledge of the operation of an order in their
-- More -- 20/188 -- (<cr> t b r n a <num> q x !<cmd> h ?) -- 
midst known as "The Order of Compassion."

This secret organization is thought by most to act as a benevolent watch
over the City, its people, and its interests. Though always acting in
secret, the Order is widely believed to be the reason that the citizens
of the city enjoy relative peace and safety. Most citizens of the town
regularly make donations to the Order through its one and only open public
representative - an old woman who is the resident healer for the City,
acting out of the First Church of Sparkle. It is to her that most of the
businesses in the city make donasions which are then passed on, via hidden
hands, to the leaders of the Order. Businesses who make such donations are
granted additional protection from evil by the Order, a fact that has 
greatly increased the number of proprietors who are interested in becoming
contributors to this "benevolent" organization.

What few in the city realize is that the Order is a complex facade - a cover
for a Guild of Thieves and Extortionists who seek to ensnare all of Sparkle
in their web of treachery and lies. This Guild, calling themselves "The
Order of the Pearl" reveal themselves only to those who they feel are
potentially worthy of becoming one of their own, and are swift to try to
-- More -- 40/188 -- (<cr> t b r n a <num> q x !<cmd> h ?) -- 
kill or destroy any who they feel are a threat to their affairs. It is,
in fact, they who have caused the very harm to the City that their cover
operation, "the Order of Compassion" is presumed to safeguard against.
So complete has been the design of this operation that numerous of the
members of the "Order of Compassion" are unaware that they are actually
doing good works in the name of evil.

But there is another, even greater Order within the City who refer to
themselves only as "The Caretakers." This ultra-secret order knows the
truth of The Order of the Pearl, and constantly works to keep them from
their evil goals. Though the Pearl is aware that there is some cooperative
effort at work which is undermining their efforts, they do not yet know
the potency of their competition. The Caretakers have actually been
operating from within the ranks of the Order of the Pearl, keeping tabs
on which citizens are sympathetic to the darker causes the Order has
stood for. The Order is becoming more and more suspicious that their ranks
have been breached, and are seeking ways to root the problem out.

Thus, the player enters the drama. Sparkle is the stage, and all places
and people within it potential characters in the story.
-- More -- 60/188 -- (<cr> t b r n a <num> q x !<cmd> h ?) -- 

The first quests the player will encounter are small quests which various
merchants and store owners will ask the player to complete. These are all
of the "gather x amount of y" quests. Some involve combat, others involve
locating things. In each instance, the player has gathered some useful
resource for one of the townsfolk for a monetary and experience reward.

Various townsfolk within the city will mention that they have heard things
on the roof at night. This will clue the player in to the fact that if they
look carefully, they can find their way onto the rooftops of the city.
Every citizen of the city will have a bedroom or study that can be accessed
via the rooftops. Within these rooms will be many opportunities to discover
things about the Order of Compassion. 

Among the things that players can discover by reading documents in these
"back rooms" of the city are the following facts or items:

    1. Mennan - the Apothecary who runs the "Poteons and Cultures" shop is
       a main contact person for the Order of the Pearl.
    2. Pearl Order members all have the same brand upon their left
-- More -- 80/188 -- (<cr> t b r n a <num> q x !<cmd> h ?) -- 
       breast - a teardrop surrounded by a circle.
    3. Members who have proven themselves in some fashion have additional
       markings tattooed around the brand - one pearl for each deed of
       merit. To know one's rank within the Order, one need see how many
       such pearls surround the teardrop on their breast.
    4. The Order of the Pearl has been specifically targetting those
       townsfolk who do not may their "dues" to the Order of Compassion
       for theft and vandalism.
    5. The brand itself can be found in one of the rooms (the one used to
       mark one's left breast.)
    6. The Order has learned that there is some organization in the town
       working against their purposes. They are intent on destroying this
       organization.

All of these clues allow the player to begin working on the much larger
quest that the city contains - "The Quest of the Order."

The quest need not be completely linear in its solution, but the basic
steps the player must take are as follows:

-- More -- 100/188 -- (<cr> t b r n a <num> q x !<cmd> h ?) -- 
    1. Find the branding iron for the Order in one of the "back rooms."
    2. Bring the iron to the tattoo parlor and pay the artist there
       to burn it onto your left breast.
    3. Go to Mennan, and reveal your brand to him. Once this is done,
       Mennan gives you a task - you are to find the five main members
       of the Pearl Order within the town. Each will give you a token to
       return to him having proven your worth.
    4. The player must then go around the town, revealing the brand to
       various npcs. Most will have no clue what it means. Some, however,
       will then give the player a task - they are to break into the
       homes of the npcs they had previously done a "get x number of y"
       quest for and steal those items and return them to this npc. The
       npcs mention that if the player is having too much trouble, that
       they might seek out the "expert" who is thought to reside in the
       sewer systems.
    5. The player must then find the master thief in the sewers. The thief
       will sell lockpicks to the player.
    6. The player must then go into the back room of each of the npcs he
       had formerly solved a "get it" quest for, and pick their room safe
       with the lockpick. Lockpicks break upon use for each safe, so the
-- More -- 120/188 -- (<cr> t b r n a <num> q x !<cmd> h ?) -- 
       player will need to buy a new one each time.
    7. Returning the sought-after item to each npc, the npc will then give
       the player a token, and ask them to return it to Mennan.
    8. Upon receiving each token, Mennan will give the player a special
       note to take to the tattoo parlor. At the tattoo parlor, the player
       is able to recieve an additional rank insignia around their brand.
    9. Once all five of the tokens have been returned to Mennan, the
       player is informed that all of these items that have been collected
       will be used to make a powerful magic potion - a "purity serum."
       Since the Order of the Pearl knows that there is some organization
       for good in the city, and they fear that it has infiltrated their
       ranks, they will create this potion that, when imbibed, allows the
       drinker to sense the good or evil in any person they encounter.
       Once completed, the serum will be given to the Leader of the guild
       who will then be able to determine the true nature of all members
       of the Order. Any found to be pure of heart will be killed.
   10. Mennan tells the player that there is one final test for them to
       pass in order to gain access to the highest ranks of the Order. The
       final ingredient the Apothecary needs for the purity serum is the
       blood of an innocent child. Mennan leads the player into a back
-- More -- 140/188 -- (<cr> t b r n a <num> q x !<cmd> h ?) -- 
       room where a child lies on a table asleep. Mennan explains that this
       child has been very ill, and he, being the town Apothecary, has been
       working on a formula to cure his disease, from which he will soon
       die. Mennan informs the player that he has just recently completed
       a potion which would, indeed, cure the boy. However, this is also
       the perfect opportunity to get the final ingredient for the stone -
       the blood from this young, innocent child. Mennan tells the player
       that if he is truly ready to embrace the Order, that they must
       slit the child's throat while he sleeps so that the blood might
       be collected to use as the final reagent for the serum. Mennan then
       says something like, "Pity about the boy, of course. The cure for
       his disease is right there on the counter, after all." Mennan then
       leaves the room. The choice is now upon the player. Cure the boy,
       or kill him for the blood.
   11. If the player chooses to kill the boy, Mennan reenters, gives the
       player a final note for the tattoo artist, and explains that they
       will now be considered a full-member of the Order of the Pearl. They
       will be given half-prices at all five shops run by the Pearl members.
       The player then goes and gets the final tatoo, and the quest is
       solved.
-- More -- 160/188 -- (<cr> t b r n a <num> q x !<cmd> h ?) -- 
   12. If, however, the player chooses instead to cure the boy, Mennan
       reenters and is extremely pleased. At the wave of his hand, the boy
       and table disappear - they were merely an illusion to test the
       the player. Knowing now that the player is not the sort of evil
       wretch that the rest of the Order are, Mennan offers the player
       status as one of the "Caretakers" of Sparkle. Mennan himself is
       obviously the one who has infiltrated the ranks of the Pearl. He
       explains to the player that he and his five fellow Caretakers keep
       tabs on the workings of the Pearl Order, and constantly work to thwart
       their plans. He indicates that the leader of the Pearl Order has
       gained knowledge of the Caretakers, and is very close to discovering
       that Mennan, the "official" second in command of the Pearl Order,
       is actually a double-agent. Mennan asks the player to bring the
       "Purity Serum" to the Leader. He indicates that he has actually
       brewed a potion of forgetfulness that will erase all memory of the
       Caretakers from the Leader's memory. The player is then informed that
       the leader is the old healer in the church.
   13. The player gives the potion to the healer, and the quest is solved.
       The player now pays half-price at all five stores run by the five
       Caretakers of Sparkle.
-- More -- 180/188 -- (<cr> t b r n a <num> q x !<cmd> h ?) -- 

At this point, all I need to do is decide which npcs are involved on both
sides.

What do you think?
G.
