(ideas from Petros)

Repeatable Quests

1) Riddles or Games that can be played again and again. Similar to the
Ska game in Calia. A sudoku game would be really really cool. But
other things like small solving small crossword puzzles, unscrambling
words to get the right result. These can all give a bit of small qxp.

2) Basic Alchemy - Introduce newbies to what it might be like to be a
spellcaster that needs to gather things to create. The tutorial
already has something like this where you make rope, but making a
small healing potion can be very helpful to them. One thing that also
gets newbies a lot is tiredness. So having potions that might rid them
of fatigue (I guess similarly to herbs) would be nice. They may not
realize that they experience from herbing, so this is a small
alternative to give them some positive reinforcement.

3) Sort of an extension on the deliver quests. For those so inclined,
we can teach some basic thievery. Maybe a quest to deliver something
involves passing an area where you will be searched by guards. So
you'll need to hide it before the guards get there, and then be
searched, and then unhide it. Or instead of hiding, they need to sneak
past the guards. Every time they successfully deliver the items in
this fashion, they should receive qxp.

4) Finding new people. They can carry around a book that records the
names of everyone they meet. And this book can contain a small
indicator of whether those people are in the Realms. For every person
they collect, they get a little xp. Obviously, this can be abused by
people with seconds, so care will need to be taken. It wouldn't be a
big deal if the who list was changed. In that case, we can just keep
track of the names of people met. Sort of like the gardener's journal
of herbs.

A newbie learns the game through the experiences that we give them. For the 
repeatable quests that they will have, we want to give them something that they
can gain experience, while continuing to enforce the things that they have 
learned. The following is the list of general tasks/quests that were sent out
by 
Nome and me. The purpose of this mail is simply to put it into a consolidated 
form so that we can begin prioritizing them. I've put them in the order that I 
believe to be most important to least important.

Meeting New People
------------------
   One of the major complaints among newbies (according to a recent Eden poll) 
   is the inability to meet people in the game. Changing the who list and the 
   newbie pin is only part of the problem. Having a quest that gives xp while 
   giving incentives to both sides to meet is something that should help to 
   solve this problem.

Message Delivery
----------------
   Delivering messages allows the newbie the chance to explore the various 
   delivery locations as well as teaching them to learn the NPC names. It's a 
   good way to teach them how to familialize themselves with their
surroundings. 
   You can use this quest as a way to tell them where other Questmasters are. 
   For example, the Faerie questmaster says that there are other questmasters
in 
   the realms, but it doesn't provide any more info. Integrate the "forwarding"
   of finding questmasters with the familiar, and it could make for a very 
   powerful newbie tool.

Newbie Explorer Quest
---------------------
   Goals are very similar to the Message Delivery quest, but you can expand it 
   beyond just NPCs. You can literally have them visit every land and get to 
   know key locations like cornerstone, roundabout, etc. You can have the 
   familiar inform them the history of that location when they get there. Think
   of it like an audio guide at a museum.

Skill Teaching Quests
---------------------
   These quests will teach very basic skills that will prepare the newbie for 
   life in a any guild or occupation. The previous mails describe examples of 
   these non-combat skills which are used rather frequently.
   - Herbing
   - Alchemy
   - Tracking
   - Hiding/Sneaking

Item Gathering
--------------
   The basic ideas of these quests is to teach the newbie about the various 
   types of items in the realm and where to find them.

Solving Riddles and Playing Games
---------------------------------
   This is something that is fun and repeatable. Everyone loves games, and this
   could provide a way for them to hone their riddle solving skills needed for 
   other quests in the game.
