                           THE AKALLABETH

The Isle of Numenor was given to the Edain in the beginning of the Second
Age as a reward for their valour and faithfulness in the Wars of Beleriand.
The island was raised in the sea between Middle-earth and Aman, the Undying
Lands, where the Valar lived. But the Valar set forth the Ban of the Valar,
refusing the Numenoreans ever to set foot upon the Undying Lands of Aman,
as the Gift of Men is Mortality, not Eternal Life. The Numenoreans grew
discontent and irritated with the Ban of the Valar, and ultimately also
the fear of death. Seeking wealth and power they started establishing
dominions on the shores of Middle-earth, to extract tribute and domination.
  In those days Sauron arose again in Middle-earth, and he hated the Dunedain
because of the deeds of their fathers and their aid to Gil-galad in the last
war. It is said that Sauron forged some rings of power, and with these
ensnared three great Numenorean lords; and they fell under his power, along
with six other Men, and became the Nine Ringwraiths.
  In those days the Shadow grew deeper upon Numenor, and the Numenoreans spoke
openly about the discontent with the Valar, and they became estranged with
their old Allies, the Eldar, and neglected serving Eru Illuvatar by worship.
Only the Faithful remained loyal to the Valar and friendly with the Eldar,
but by SA 2900 the Kings forbade the use of Elven-tongues and persecuted
the Faithful. When Tar-Palantir ascended the throne, he gave peace to the
Faithful for a while, but was usurped by his brothers son, Ar-Pharazon.
  Ar-Pharazon seized the sceptre in year 3255, and he was a cruel and chaotic
king, resolving to gain kingship of the world. In his time Sauron once more
put forth his might, taking the title of King of Men. Then Ar-Pharazon
gathered a great hoard of weapons, and with mighty armies he sailed to
Middle-earth. When Sauron saw the power of the Numenoreans, he smoothened
his tongue and humbled before the king, and was taken as prisoner back
to Numenor in SA 3262.

Sauron quickly succeeded in corrupting Numenor with his counsels, erecting
a temple to Melkor, and persuading Ar-Pharazon to convert to worship of the
Dark; and most of the Numenoreans followed him. There was still a remnant
of the Faithful, and their leader was Amandil and his son Elendil, and
Elendils young sons Isildur and Anarion. In Numenor grew Nimloth, the
White Tree, but Sauron wanted the king to cut it down. This was done, but
not before Isildur had stolen a sapling of the Tree.
  The power of Sauron increased daily, and as Ar-Pharazon grew older, Sauron
filled the kings mind with many dreams. The king was made to believe that he
could sail to Aman and with the force of the Numenorean armies secure
himself Immortality. Thus Ar-Pharazon built a great fleet, ready to sail
farther West than ever before.
  Amandil however, knew the Ban of the Valar, and set out to warn the Valar
about the King's plans, while Elendil and his sons led the Faithful to
live in Middle-earth. Elendil escaped with four ships, Isildur with three
and Anarion with two ships. With them they brought the fruit of the
White Tree, and the Seven Stones, the gifts from the Eldar.
  It is said that when the Numenoreans Fleet reached the Undying Lands in
SA 3319, Manwe, Lord of the Valar called upon Eru Illuvatar, and Eru the One
showed forth his power. Numenor was swallowed by the sea, as was all the
ships of the Numenorean Fleet, while Ar-Pharazon and those with him who
had set foot upon the land of Aman were buried under falling hills.
And Sauron, who was still in Numenor when the devouring wave rolled over
the isle, and his body was lost, but his spirit once more returned to
Barad-dur, his home in Mordor.
  The only survivors of the Downfall of Numenor were the Faithful, and
those from Numenor that had moved to Middle-earth. Those who lived in
Lindon and Pelargir were also among the Faithful, while the Numenoreans
living in Umbar and Harad had been loyal to Ar-Pharazon; and they became
known as the Black Numenoreans.
  Elendil and his sons and the Faithful founded the kingdoms of Arnor and
Gondor in year 3320 SA. Isildur planted the White Tree in Minas Ithil,
chief city of his royal fief, Ithilien.

