

The Charter of the Rangers of the Westlands
===========================================

    I. The Guild is divided into three companies, the Company of Gondor, the
       Company of the North, and the Company of Ithilien.

   II. Each Company is headed by a Captain. The Captain must be a mortal ranger
       of the company.

  III. Each Captain assigns a deputy and heir-apparent, the Lieutenant of the
       company, and a second deputy, the Sergeant of the Company.

   IV. The Council of the Rangers:
          (i) The Captains and the Lieutenants of the three companies form the
              council of the Guild of the Rangers.
         (ii) In the Council each Captain who has an appointed Lieutenant has
              two votes, each Captain without an appointed Lieutenant has one
              vote and each Lieutenant one vote.  It is the duty of all council
              members to vote. The Sergeants have no vote in the Council.
        (iii) Unless stated otherwise in these Laws, a vote in the Council is
              decided by simple majority of votes.
         (iv) Votes may be cast as either Aye/Yes or Nay/No. A council member is
              not required to cast a vote for the ballot to be legal.
          (v) If less than five votes are cast, the vote is declared void.
         (vi) If the vote is tied, The following steps shall be taken to resolve
              the tie:
              (1) In the event when a Lieutenant's vote is absent, the relevant
                  Captain's vote shall be reduced by one.
              (2) If both Captain and Lieutenant of one company are absent, the
                  vote must be redrawn.
        (vii) Any matter may be refered to the most senior Captain for casting
              arbitration. The most senior Captain is defined the Captain least
              recently assigned the position of Captain.
       (viii) Any council member may call for a vote on any topic.  It is the
              responsibility of the calling council member to administer the
              vote. If the vote is passed, all members are expected to abide by
              the result. If a vote is declared void, it is at the calling
              member's discretion to recall the vote.

    V. The duties of the Captains are:
          (i) Recruit rangers for the guild among those who are not rangers.
         (ii) Recruit rangers for their company among the pupils of the Rangers.
        (iii) To help and assist their fellow rangers, to rule the guild, to
              organize the combat against Evil, to ensure all rangers are aware
              of the Laws of the Rangers of the Westlands.
         (iv) To assist the immortals of the domain and the guildmasters of the
              Rangers by submitting ideas, suggestions, and to report problems.
          (v) To assign deputies and heir apparent, thus ensuring a never broken
              line of captains for their company.  If at any time a Captain finds
              his or her self without a deputy, they should appoint one within
              the shortest possible time.
         (vi) To ensure their deputies are carrying out their appointed duties.
        (vii) If a Lieutenant for another company has not been nominated after a
              week in which the position has been vacant, the most senior Captain
              will undertake to advise and where necessary prompt the Captain of
              the deficient company to make the choice.

   VI. The office of Captaincy is terminated, if
          (i) The Captain resigns.
              A Captain on the quest to attain immortality should resign before
              finishing the quest.  A Captain attaining immortality is expected
              to resign at once.
         (ii) The Captain is found to be irresponsible in his/her duties or the
              Captain is found to be in serious breach of the Laws of the Rangers
              of the Westlands and is impeached by the council.

  VII. Resignation:
          (i) A Captain can resign only if there is a Lieutenant of his or her
              company.
         (ii) By resigning from the office of Captaincy, a Captain calls for an
              election of a new Captain of his or her company.
        (iii) The Lieutenant of the company of the resigning Captain will be the
              first candidate in the ballot.
         (iv) The council will nominate at least on other ranger of the company
              of the Captain who resigned.
          (v) Once there are at least two candidates to choose from, the rangers
              that were members of the company of the resigning Captain at the
              moment the Captain resigned have one week to vote for one of the
              candidates.
         (vi) If at any time before the end of one week all rangers entitled to
              vote have cast their vote, the election is terminated.
        (vii) The vote is secret. Only the final result will be known.
       (viii) The candidate who received the most votes will be the new Captain.
              If two candidates receive the same number of votes, the candidate
              nominated first will be the new Captain.
         (ix) If for any reason whatsoever the post of a Captain is vacant, the
              council can call for a vote for a new Captain to fill this post by
              nominating a candidate.

 VIII. Impeachment:
          (i) Any three members of the council can impeach a Captain of a company
              of the rangers.
         (ii) A Lieutenant cannot be impeached. If a Lieutenant acts in a way
              that would demand impeachment of a Captain, it is the Captain's
              duty to replace the Lieutenant.
              Failure to do so is grounds for impeachment of the Captain.
        (iii) Impeachment of a Captain removes the Captain and the Deputies of
              the Captain's company from the Council and terminates their
              offices.
         (iv) The impeachment also calls for an election of a new Captain of the
              company. In this election, the impeached Captain will not be a
              candidate unless nominated again.
          (v) The ensuing procedure follows VII. (iii) - (viii).

   IX. The office of the Deputies of the Rangers:
       (1) The office of the Lieutenants of the Rangers
          (i) A Lieutenant is assigned by the Captain of the company.  There is
              no other selection process involved, though the other Captain is
              free to make suggestions.
         (ii) The office of the Lieutenant is terminated if the Captain assigns a
              new Lieutenant out of the ranks of the company, or if the Captain
              of the company is impeached. Each Captain can always and without
              any specific cause assign a new Lieutenant.
        (iii) The Lieutenant is a member of the Council. In votes of the Council
              the Lieutenant is not bound by the vote of the Captain of the
              company.
         (iv) Except in votes of the Council, the authority of the Lieutenant is
              defined by the Captain.
          (v) The Lieutenant can act in all matters, inside and outside the
              company and the guild, with the full authority of the Captain.
         (vi) The Lieutenant will act with the authority of the Captain if and
              only if and only in so far as he or she has been authorized by the
              Captain to do so.

       
       (2) The office of the Sergeants of the Rangers:
          (i) A Sergeant is assigned by the Captain of the company. There is no
              other selection process involved, though the other Captain is
              free to make suggestions.
         (ii) The office of the Sergeant is terminated if the Captain assigns a
              new Sergeant out of the ranks of the company, or if the Captain
              of the company is impeached. Each Captain can always and without
              any specific cause assign a new Sergeant.
        (iii) The Sergeant is not a member of Council for voting purposes, but
              may be present at Council meetings and take part in discussions.
         (iv) The authority of the Sergeant is defined by the Captain of the
              Company.

    X. Joining a Company:
       A Pupil of the Rangers can join one of the Companies by asking a Captain
       of the Company to be assigned to the company.
          (i) A Captain may assign a Pupil to his or her company only if the
              pupil asked to join the company.
         (ii) A Lieutenant may assign a pupil if the Captain has authorized him
              or her to do so, and that pupil has requested to join.
        (iii) The assignment to a company is final. It is not possible to swap
              companies after being assigned to a company.

   XI. Powers of the Captains of the Rangers:
       Captains are responsible for all that occurs within their companies, thus
       they shall have powers suitable to administrating their own Company.
          (i) A Captain shall be able to accept a pupil into their company.
         (ii) A Captain shall be able to promote deputies.
        (iii) A Captain shall be able to remove a Ranger from their company, that
              Ranger thus becoming a pupil, with appropriate loss of skills.
         (iv) A Captain shall be able to suspend on sight any Ranger, resulting
              in loss of access to Ranger-only areas, loss of ability to train at
              the halls.
          (v) A Captain shall be able to unsuspend a suspended Ranger, returning
              that Ranger to full duty and privileges.
         (vi) A Captain shall be able to, at the discretion of the Council, ban a
              Ranger from the guild, with loss comparable to having voluntarily
              quit the guild.
        (vii) A Captain shall be able to send an offending Ranger to the stocks
              for a predetermined amount of time.
       (viii) A Captain shall be able to assign to any Ranger of their company
              to a Specialty, provided that the Ranger in question meets the
              company's requirements. Upon completion of the necessary steps and
              training, the Captain may promote a specialist to Master within
              their field.
         (ix) A Captain shall be able to assign any Ranger of their company the
              status of Mentor.

  XII. Powers of the Deputies of the Rangers:
      (1) Powers of the Lieutenants of the Rangers:
          No Lieutenant has any power beyond that which is authorized them by their
          Captain. Those powers that can be delegated to Lieutenants are as follows:
          (i) A Lieutenant can assign a Ranger pupil into their company.
         (ii) A Lieutenant can suspend any Ranger on sight for breaking a law,
              with resulting loss of Ranger privileges, including loss of access
              to Ranger-only areas and inability to train in the halls.
        (iii) A Lieutenant can assign any Ranger of their company to a Specialty,
              provided that the Ranger in question meets the company's requirements.
              Upon completion of the necessary steps and training, the Lieutenant
              may promote a specialist to Master within their field.

      (2) Powers of the Sergeants of the Rangers:
          No Sergeant has any power beyond that which is authorized them by their
          Captain. Those powers that can be delegated to Sergeants are as follows:
          (i) A Sergeant can issue rewards to the pupils of mentors within their
              company.
         (ii) A Sergeant may serve as a Recruiter in place of a company Master
              Recruiter or Recruiter-in-training when needed.
        (iii) A Sergeant should keep their superior Officers informed about the
              status of all applicants and pupils via periodic reports.
         (iv) A Sergeant may be assigned other duties on a temporary basis by
              their superior Officers, in the event they shall be inable to be
              active for any prolonged period of time.

 XIII. Powers of the Council:
       The Council of the Rangers can:
          (i) Pass laws affecting all mortal Rangers.
         (ii) Change the charter following the procedures outlined above.
        (iii) Determine punishments appropriate to each infraction of the law, to
              be set forth in a document and used for sentencing of guilty
              parties.
         (iv) Impeach a Captain of a company, as set forth above.
          (v) Act as the ruling body for the Rangers of Gondor, taking any
              actions deemed necessary to ensure the continuance and smooth 
              running of, the Rangers of the Westlands, dependant on guildmaster
              technical support for all matters relating to official Genesis
              rules and actual code implementation.


