                                NUMENOR

It was after the Wars of Beleriand, when the Valar cast Morgoth in the
Void, and Beleriand was destroyed, in the first years of the Second Age.
The Edain fought alongside the Elves in the Wars, and therefore the Valar
raised a great island west of Middle-earth. This island was given to the
Edain as a reward for their valour and faithfulness in the Wars; and they
colonized it in year 32, and named the island Numenor. The island was placed
much further west and closer to Aman, the Undying Lands than any other place
on the earth, and thus the Edain were from then on called the Dunedain, the
Edain of the West. Enriched by the gifts of the Eldar, the Numenoreans
prospered. They became great mariners, powerful and wise, but they were
forbidden to ever set foot on the Undying Lands, or become immortal as the
Eldar. The first King of Numenor was Elros, who named himself Tar-Minyatur,
son of Earendil and brother of Elrond, and the sceptre was passed on to his
descendants. The Kings Court was in Andunie, the capital of Numenor.
  From about SA 1000 the Numenoreans began to return to Middle-earth,
establishing contacts with the more primitive Men, and about SA 1200 they
founded permanent havens there, of which Pelargir and Umbar were the greatest.
In 1700 King Tar-Minastir sent a great fleet to the aid of Gil-galad, the
High King of the Noldor, and helped defeat Saurons armies, who had overrun all
of Eriador in the War of the Elves and Sauron. The might of the Numenoreans
was great, but they grew proud and discontented however, as they lost sight
of the significance of the Gift of Men: Mortality. But the Ban of the Valar
denied them to sail west out of sight of Numenor and set foot in Aman, and
this was the main source of irritation. From about SA 2300 the Dunedain
began to speak openly against the Valar, and soon they were estranged from
the elves and neglecting worship of Eru.
  The story about the Fall of Numenor is described in the book Akallabeth.
