                                     ROHAN

Rohan, ("Horse-land"), is the Kingdom of the Rohirrim. Rohan is bounded by
the Ered Nimrais to the south, the River Isen to the west, the Misty
Mountains, Fangorn Forest and the River Limlight to the north, and River
Anduin and the Mering Stream to the east. Rohan, originally Calenardhon,
was once a province of Gondor. It was given to the Eotheod people by
Steward Cirion of Gondor in Third Age 2510 in return for their aid in the
Battle of the Fields of Celebrant. Eorl, the leader of the Eotheod then
swore the Oath of Eorl, pledging alliance to Gondor, and was thereafter
the First King of Rohan. The current king of Rohan is Theoden.
  Rohan is a large country of green plains, throughout which the Rohirrim
live outspread in small villages and farms. Rohans biggest pride is the
horses, the best in the world. In the rule of the Rohirrim, the ancient
fortresses of Calenardhon has again been restored, among them Dunharrow,
Helm's Deep and Isengard. The capital has always been Edoras.
  In TA 2758 Rohan was overrun by Dunlendings led by Wulf, and also Isengard
fell in their hands, but next spring they were defeated by Frealaf. That
same year, Saruman the Wise was given the Key of Isengard by the Steward
Beren of Gondor, and moved in there. After 2799, Rohan was troubled by Orcs
fleeing from the Misty Mountains, and they were not driven out of the Ered
Nimrais until 2864.
  From about year 2960 of the Third Age, Saruman of Isengard has been
troubling the Rohirrim. In Isengard he has gathered Orcs and Dunlendings,
and set them to harass Rohan. It has even been said that he has demanded
horses as taxes.
  Rohan has always been loyal and closely allied to Gondor. When Gondor is
in need of their aid, the Red Arrow will be the sign. Rohan is called the
Riddermark, the Mark of the Riders or the Mark by the Rohirrim themselves.
In Gondor it is named Rohan, while Orcs call it Horse-country.
Notable places in Rohan: Eastfold, Westfold, Helm's Deep, Dunharrow, Edoras
and Isengard.
