
The Lore of Trees
    By the hand of Menagorn, Master Forester of Minas Tirith
    06 May, 3018

Herein I describe some of the trees to be found by those who
might take interest in the arboreal treasures of the Kingdom.
Please note that it is always proper to capitalize the
Genus when referring to a scientific name.

Trees with two to five clustered needle-like leaves belong to the
genus Pinus, or the pine trees. The Lodgepole pine has two
needles per bundle, whereas the Ponderosa and Knobcone pines
have three. White pines and sugar pines have five needles per
bundle. These conifers require a fair amount of sunlight to prosper,
and hence these forests are often open, with light spilling down
to the floor. Such forests are characterized by a unique sound
of wind moving through the needles, as well as a special
aroma.

Deciduous trees with alternate branching patterns, simple
lobed leaves belong to the genus Quercus, or the oaks. Two
common oaks are the pin oak and the black oak. The pin oak has
more deeply lobed leaves and smaller acorns, with plentiful
slender twigs (the 'pins') which end up as pinlike knots in the
wood. An especially rare variety of this genus, the Marsh Oak,
has been reported in forested areas to the north of the 
Rohan plains, although the present author has never dared to
seek out a specimen for the royal herbarium.

Coniferous trees with leaves that are all flattened, short,
sharp and scale-like belong to the genus Sequoiadendron, or
the sequoias. The cones are woody, egg-shaped and extremely
hard. These trees are the largest trees to grow on the face
of Arda, sometimes reaching over 300 feet. They can also live
for more than three thousand years.

Deciduous trees with alternate branching patterns, simple
non-lobed leaves belong to the genus Betula, or the birches. 
The Yellow Birch, for example, has smooth straw-coloured
peeling bark with small horizontal lines, as opposed to the
Paper Birch, which has white or silvery bark that peels off
and rolls up on the ground over time. These trees have dangling
clusters of flowers called catkins.

Coniferous trees with leaves that are all flattened, short,
not all sharp and scale-like and round soft or leathery cones
belong to the genus Juniperus, or the juniper trees. Female
trees have blue leathery fruits that look like berries.

Deciduous trees with alternate branching patterns, compound
leaves and plated pith in the branches include walnut trees,
genus Juglans. The walnut fruit is a nut, borne singly or in 
pairs, and enclosed in a solid, non-splitting green husk. 
Because few plants grow nearby walnut trees, it is suspected
they emit some manner of noxious vapour or liquid that 
weakens the growth of competitors.

A deciduous tree with opposite branching patterns, simple
leaves with smooth outlines is the sugar maple, Acer saccharum.
The sap of this tree is used to make maple syrup, a favourite
addition to many a plate in Gondor and the Shire. Other maples,
such as the red maple and silver maple, have toothed outlines
on the leaves.

Coniferous trees with leaves that are all flattened, short,
not all sharp and scale-like and very small round woody cones 
belong to the a group of trees collectively known as the false 
cedars. The leaves overlap like shingles and form distinctive 
fern-like sprays.

Several kinds of ash trees can be recognized by their opposite
branching patterns and compound leaves. Examples include the
black, white, green and mountain ashes.

Coniferous trees with leaves that are all flattened, short,
not all sharp and scale-like and relatively large round woody cones 
belong to the genus Cupressus, or the cypress trees. The bark
of these trees peels in thin strips, exposing the shiny brown
inner bark.




