
The 1998 Book of Votes of the Council of the Rangers of the Westlands
=====================================================================


Tyr called for a vote: to reconfirm former council resolution that Masters are expected to maintain active sponsorhip of a pupil.  After the graduation of their current pupil, they are expected to sponsor another within 2 months, otherwise they will be demoted to one level below Master in their specialty.  If necessary, they may petition their own Company council for a 2 month leave of absence from this repsonsibility, and the Company councilmay bring the matter before the entire Council if necessary. (Mon
Tyr: Aye; Alto: Aye; Hannes:  - ; Isatis: Aye; Prokop: Nay; Nightingale: Aye.
Voting terminated by Tyr at Tue Feb 10: 'Ayes': six - 'Nays': one. The 'Ayes' have it!

Tyr called for a vote: to reconfirm previous Council resolution that a Master who (without satisfactory explanation) does not actively participate in Genesis for one month shall be demoted to one level below Master.  If that Master was sponsoring an active pupil, the pupil will be declared unsponsored. (Mon Feb  9)
Tyr: Aye; Alto: Aye; Hannes:  - ; Isatis:  - ; Prokop: Nay; Nightingale: Aye.
Voting terminated by Tyr at Tue Feb 10: 'Ayes': five - 'Nays': one. The 'Ayes' have it!

Tyr called for a vote: to reconfirm previous Council resolution that a pupil who (without preliminary satisfactory explanation) does not actively participate in Genesis for one month shall be expelled from the Rangers. (Mon Feb  9)
Tyr: Aye; Alto: Aye; Hannes:  - ; Isatis:  - ; Prokop: Aye; Nightingale: Aye.
Voting terminated by Tyr at Tue Feb 10: 'Ayes': six - 'Nays': none. The 'Ayes' have it!

Hannes called for a vote: No ranger shall ever team with a person who is a Notorious Outlaw to the Rangers of the Westlands. (Wed Feb 25)
Tyr: Nay; Alto: Nay; Hannes: Aye; Isatis: Aye; Prokop: Aye; Nightingale: Aye.
Voting terminated by Prokop at Thu Feb 26: 'Ayes': five - 'Nays': four. The 'Ayes' have it!

Nightingale called for a vote: Shall the Rangers of the Westlands agree to render assistance to both the Knights and Calians, our long time allies, who have officially requested our aid in their openly declared war against the Angmar? (Fri Mar 20)
Isatis:  - ; Alto:  - ; Nightingale: Aye; Stexan: Aye; Prokop: Aye; Peridot: Aye.
Voting terminated by Nightingale at Fri Mar 20: 'Ayes': five - 'Nays': none. The 'Ayes' have it!

Nightingale called for a vote: Rangers shall be permitted, at their personal discretion, to render any aid necessary to assist any Knight or Calian throughout Genesis who does engage or has engaged a member of the Angmar Army in accordance with the rules of war as set down by the Calians and Knights.  (This means respecting the overall laws of Genesis that prevent killing players who are significantly smaller than yourself.)  Please also note:  This is not an open declaration of war against the Angmar Army.  No ranger shall initiate attacks against the Army of Angmar, unless they are Notorious Outlaws. (Fri Mar 20)
Isatis:  - ; Alto:  - ; Nightingale: Aye; Stexan: Aye; Prokop: Aye; Peridot: Aye.
Voting terminated by Nightingale at Fri Mar 20: 'Ayes': five - 'Nays': none. The 'Ayes' have it!

Prokop called for a vote: Rangers are not allowed to team with or give assistance to members of the Dark Lords forces (MM/AA) (Sun Apr 12)
Stexan: Aye; Prokop: Aye; Nightingale: Aye; Arkahan: Aye; Falkor: Aye; Imrahil: Aye.
Voting terminated by Prokop at Sat Apr 25: 'Ayes': nine - 'Nays': none. The 'Ayes' have it!

Stexan called for a vote: To close the guild temporarily to new members until such time as the council decides to reopen it. (Fri Apr 24)
Stexan: Aye; Prokop: Nay; Nightingale: Aye; Arkahan: Aye; Falkor: Nay; Imrahil: Aye.
Voting terminated by Stexan at Mon Apr 27: 'Ayes': six - 'Nays': three. The 'Ayes' have it!

Nightingale called for a vote: Shall Whyte's application (re-application) to the guild be denied?  Future Council Reference:  Whyte left Ithilien to become an Angmar (briefly) when he left the last time. (Mon Apr 27)
Stexan: Aye; Prokop: Aye; Nightingale: Aye; Arkahan: Aye; Falkor: Aye; Imrahil: Aye.
Voting terminated by Nightingale at Thu May  7: 'Ayes': nine - 'Nays': none. The 'Ayes' have it!

Nightingale called for a vote: To grant Arim a pardon and another chance to prove his faithfulness to the Valar and our cause by allowing him to return as a member of this guild. (Mon Jun  8)
Stexan: Aye; Prokop: Aye; Nightingale: Aye; Arkahan: Aye; Avenger: Aye; Imrahil: Aye.
Voting terminated by Peridot at Sat Jun 20 1998: 'Ayes': nine - 'Nays': none. The 'Ayes' have it!

Nightingale called for a vote: Should Mallor be granted the pardon and peace with his former enemies that he has asked for and be removed from the Notorious Outlaw list? (Sat Jul 18)
Iliana: Aye; Prokop: Nay; Nightingale: Aye; Arkahan: Aye; Avenger:  - ; Peridot: Aye.
Voting terminated by Nightingale at Wed Jul 22 1998: 'Ayes': six - 'Nays': two. The 'Ayes' have it!

Nightingale called for a vote: Should Vygiz be pardoned for his past crimes and have his status as an Outlaw removed so that he may enter the Gondor guildhouse? (Sat Jul 18)
Iliana: Nay; Prokop: Nay; Nightingale: Nay; Arkahan: Nay; Avenger:  - ; Peridot: Nay.
Voting terminated by Nightingale at Wed Jul 22 1998: 'Ayes': none - 'Nays': eight. The 'Nays' have it!

Prokop called for a vote: That Vesper be removed from the Rangers for her constant efforts to mislead the council and guild. Most recently asking council to remove a name from the NO list after she killed him, leaving out that the death was pre-planned and staged. (Tue Jul 21)
Iliana: Aye; Prokop: Aye; Nightingale: Aye; Arkahan: Aye; Avenger:  - ; Peridot: Aye.
Voting terminated by Nightingale at Wed Jul 22 1998: 'Ayes': eight - 'Nays': none. The 'Ayes' have it!

Nightingale called for a vote: Shall the draft for Sergeant Duties be approved and added into the Charter?  (as posted on the Council board) (Sat Jul 18)
Iliana: Aye; Prokop: Aye; Nightingale: Aye; Arkahan: Aye; Avenger: Aye; Peridot: Aye.
Voting terminated by Nightingale at Tue Jul 28 1998: 'Ayes': nine - 'Nays': none. The 'Ayes' have it!

Nightingale called for a vote: Shall the changes to disclosure lists be approved, and pending the guildmasters' approvals, incorporated into the services provided by Amaron?  (as posted on the Council board) (Sat Jul 18)
Iliana: Aye; Prokop: Aye; Nightingale: Aye; Arkahan: Aye; Avenger: Aye; Peridot: Aye.
Voting terminated by Nightingale at Tue Jul 28 1998: 'Ayes': nine - 'Nays': none. The 'Ayes' have it!

Nightingale called for a vote: Shall the new Application Process be approved and added to the archive shelf in the library of Gondor?  (as posted on the Council board) (Sat Jul 18)
Iliana: Aye; Prokop: Aye; Nightingale: Aye; Arkahan: Aye; Avenger: Aye; Peridot: Aye.
Voting terminated by Nightingale at Tue Jul 28 1998: 'Ayes': nine - 'Nays': none. The 'Ayes' have it!

Nightingale called for a vote: Shall the procedure for Mentor selection and criteria be approved and added to the archive shelf in the library of Gondor?  (as posted on the Council board) (Sat Jul 18)
Iliana: Aye; Prokop: Nay; Nightingale: Aye; Arkahan: Aye; Avenger: Nay; Peridot: Aye.
Voting terminated by Nightingale at Tue Jul 28 1998: 'Ayes': six - 'Nays': three. The 'Ayes' have it!

Nightingale called for a vote: Shall the Training Program outline be approved and added to the archive shelf in the library of Gondor?  (as posted on the Council board) (Sat Jul 18)
Iliana: Aye; Prokop: Nay; Nightingale: Aye; Arkahan: Aye; Avenger: Nay; Peridot: Aye.
Voting terminated by Nightingale at Tue Jul 28 1998: 'Ayes': six - 'Nays': three. The 'Ayes' have it!

Peridot called for a vote: Shall Nitramin be granted a pardon and another chance to prove her faithfulness to the Valar and our cause by allowing her to return as a member of this guild? (Sat Jul 25)
Iliana: Aye; Prokop: Aye; Nightingale: Aye; Arkahan: Aye; Avenger: Aye; Peridot: Aye.
Voting terminated by Nightingale at Tue Jul 28 1998: 'Ayes': nine - 'Nays': none. The 'Ayes' have it!

Iliana called for a vote: Shall Falkor be granted a pardon and another chance to prove his faithfulness to the Valar and our cause thereby allowing him to return as a member of this guild? (Sun Jul 26)
Iliana: Nay; Prokop: Nay; Nightingale: Nay; Arkahan: Aye; Avenger: Nay; Peridot: Nay.
Voting terminated by Iliana at Tue Jul 28 1998: 'Ayes': one - 'Nays': eight. The 'Nays' have it!

Peridot called for a vote: To outlaw Rnan for buying all of Lothmir's Coccinea for a Morgul Mage, as well as the fact that she will be called upon to do so again. (Thu Sep 10)
Iliana: Aye; Captain of the North:  - ; Nightingale: Aye; Arkahan: Aye; Lieutenant of the North:  - ; Peridot: Aye.
Voting terminated by Peridot at Fri Sep 11 1998: 'Ayes': six - 'Nays': none. The 'Ayes' have it!

Nightingale called for a vote: To ratify the Assistance Pact between the Rangers of the Westlands and the Neidar Clan and make it official policy of the guild. (Sun Oct  4)
Iliana: Aye; Captain of the North:  - ; Nightingale: Aye; Arkahan: Aye; Lieutenant of the North:  - ; Peridot: Aye.
Voting terminated by Nightingale at Tue Oct  6 1998: 'Ayes': six - 'Nays': none. The 'Ayes' have it!

Iliana called for a vote: to impose a one month moratorium on all pardons, from the NO list and outlaw list, since our diplomatic situation with Minas Morgul is currently uncertain at best. (Tue Oct  6)
Iliana: Aye; Captain of the North:  - ; Nightingale: Aye; Arkahan: Aye; Lieutenant of the North:  - ; Peridot: Aye.
Voting terminated by Iliana at Tue Oct  6 1998: 'Ayes': six - 'Nays': none. The 'Ayes' have it!

Nightingale called for a vote: Regarding the events on the public board in the Gondor Hall during the month of October, in which former members and others have engaged in an attack and slander campaign against the Rangers, to remove all such notes as they appear currently, and all such future notes should they appear.  The board is for general announcements to the public, applications, applicant questions, and public announcements pertaining to the sharing of information regarding enemy movements or scouting reports between the rangers and the general public.  A note explaining this action and why it has been taken shall be posted on the board, namely, that our board is not to be abused and used as an avenue to slander our guild or spread hate and negativity about it in our own Hall.  The guild deserves better, and such notes belong on the flame board. (Thu Oct 22)
Iliana: Nay; Captain of the North:  - ; Nightingale: Aye; Arkahan: Aye; Lieutenant of the North:  - ; Disraelia: Aye.
Voting terminated by Nightingale at Sat Oct 24 1998: 'Ayes': four - 'Nays': two. The 'Ayes' have it!

Iliana called for a vote: Effective October 26, 1998, the Morgul Mage Truce was dissolved following refusals on the part of the Tower  of Morgul to uphold its directives.  The Truce shall  be removed from the library and archived, as well as  all references to such updated in the necessary documents. (Sat Dec 12)
Iliana: Aye; Captain of the North:  - ; Nightingale: Aye; Cecelia: Aye; Lieutenant of the North:  - ; Disraelia: Aye.
Voting terminated by Iliana at Sun Dec 13 1998: 'Ayes': six - 'Nays': none. The 'Ayes' have it!

Nightingale called for a vote: To amend the rules of Engagement as follows:  As a general rule, we do not condone attacking those who steal from that which we have killed or from our personal belongings.  In extreme or exceptional cases where the individual ranger feels action is warranted and the theft is worth persuing, then he/she may do so.  Any consequences of deciding to take that action fall upon the shoulders of the ranger, and any 'hunting' or retribution must stop within 12 hours or by the next Armageddon, whichever comes first.  It is an unworthy prostitution of our ethics as Rangers to continue to harbor resentments or chase thieves when our lands are in need of defense and equipment or money can be replaced. (Sat Dec 12)
Iliana: Aye; Captain of the North:  - ; Nightingale: Aye; Cecelia: Nay; Lieutenant of the North:  - ; Disraelia: Aye.
Voting terminated by Iliana at Wed Dec 23 1998: 'Ayes': five - 'Nays': one. The 'Ayes' have it!

Iliana called for a vote: Granting a pardon for Stormbrnger, allowing him to rejoin the Rangers of the Westlands as a pupil. (Thu Dec 17)
Iliana: Aye; Captain of the North:  - ; Nightingale: Aye; Cecelia: Aye; Lieutenant of the North:  - ; Disraelia: Aye.
Voting terminated by Iliana at Thu Dec 24 1998: 'Ayes': six - 'Nays': none. The 'Ayes' have it!

