
The 1996 Book of Votes of the Council of the Rangers of the Westlands
=====================================================================


Guincho called for a vote: Outlaws:  Rangers have the option of attacking outlaws on sight and hunting them down provided that they are on ME, not in the kingdom of Rohan(including edoras and the plains), not east of the forsaken abandoned inn, not east of the road the haradrim patrol (including the road itself),provided also that the ranger attacking the outlaw states to the outlaw that he is attacking becuase the character is an outlaw, provided also that the ranger does this alone without help or assist
Guincho: Aye; Arethian: Aye; Macleod: Aye; Puzit: Aye; Prokop: Nay; Tyler: Aye.
Voting terminated by Prokop at Thu Jan 18: 'Ayes': eight - 'Nays': one. The 'Ayes' have it!

Guincho called for a vote: that Marisol, Master Diplomat of Gondor, be accepted as Sgt (Mon Feb 12)
Guincho: Aye; Arethian:  - ; Macleod: Aye; Puzit:  - ; Prokop: Aye; Tyler: Aye.
Voting terminated by Guincho at Wed Feb 14: 'Ayes': six - 'Nays': none. The 'Ayes' have it!

Arethian called for a vote:  (Fri Feb 16)
Guincho:  - ; Arethian:  - ; Macleod:  - ; Puzit:  - ; Prokop:  - ; Tyler:  - .
Voting terminated by Arethian at Fri Feb 16: 'Ayes': none - 'Nays': none. 
Arethian called for a vote: Shall a Council mandate be extended for a meeting of the Three Companies in order to discuss issues affecting the entire guild as well as initiatives which will improve co-operation, communication, and co-ordination between the Companies?  Dates and times to be determined by the Council as the most convenient for a majority of Rangers. (Fri Feb 16)
Guincho: Aye; Arethian: Aye; Macleod: Aye; Puzit: Aye; Prokop: Aye; Tyler: Aye.
Voting terminated by Prokop at Sun Feb 18: 'Ayes': nine - 'Nays': none. The 'Ayes' have it!

Prokop called for a vote: If a member of the theives is caught or seen stealing from a ranger, then that thief may be attacked and hunted for their crime. (Tue Feb 27)
Guincho: Aye; Arethian: Nay; Macleod: Aye; Puzit: Aye; Prokop: Aye; Tyler: Aye.
Voting terminated by Arethian at Thu Feb 29: 'Ayes': seven - 'Nays': two. The 'Ayes' have it!

Prokop called for a vote: Should each guild house have a plaque or similar item to show the list of past council members? minus the dates of service. (Tue Feb 27)
Guincho: Aye; Arethian: Aye; Macleod: Aye; Puzit: Aye; Prokop: Aye; Tyler: Aye.
Voting terminated by Arethian at Thu Feb 29: 'Ayes': nine - 'Nays': none. The 'Ayes' have it!

Guincho called for a vote: that Rugogold and Jaypeg will be nominated along with prokop (Tue Mar 26)
Guincho: Aye; Captain of the North:  - ; Twilight: Aye; Puzit: Aye; Lieutenant of the North:  - ; Tyler: Aye.
Voting terminated by Guincho at Tue Mar 26: 'Ayes': six - 'Nays': none. The 'Ayes' have it!

Prokop called for a vote: Shall we suspend all negotiations with the mages for a new treaty? (Mon Mar 25)
Guincho: Aye; Captain of the North: Aye; Twilight:  - ; Puzit: Aye; Lieutenant of the North: Aye; Tyler: Aye.
Voting terminated by Guincho at Thu Mar 28: 'Ayes': six - 'Nays': none. The 'Ayes' have it!

Prokop called for a vote: Shall we cancel the current treaty with the Mages Guild? (Tue Mar 26)
Guincho: Aye; Captain of the North: Aye; Twilight: Nay; Puzit: Nay; Lieutenant of the North: Nay; Tyler: Nay.
Voting terminated by Guincho at Thu Mar 28: 'Ayes': three - 'Nays': five. The 'Nays' have it!

Guincho called for a vote: that council outlaw Ruselian again since he was unoutlawed by Jade, who gave no reason to unoutlaw him.  Furthermore , Ruselian was outlawed because he used that character to buy peppers, a component for a mage spell, for his second, Zacron.  Furthermore Jade and Zacron are apparently real life friends, thus I feel that Jade took advantage of his position as captain to unoutlaw Ruselian. (Thu Mar 28)
Guincho: Aye; Arethian: Aye; Twilight: Aye; Puzit: Aye; Rugogold:  - ; Tyler: Aye.
Voting terminated by Guincho at Thu Apr  4: 'Ayes': eight - 'Nays': none. The 'Ayes' have it!

Guincho called for a vote: that we end the treaty with the morgul mages since they , their council members and members do not follow it as evident by recent events (Thu Apr  4)
Guincho: Aye; Captain of the North: Aye; Twilight: Aye; Puzit: Aye; Rugogold: Aye; Tyler: Aye.
Voting terminated by Puzit at Mon Apr  8: 'Ayes': nine - 'Nays': none. The 'Ayes' have it!

Arethian called for a vote: Shall the Captains be given the power to punish one another? Said power to be used only at the request of the offending Captain or the directive of the Council, and not to include pupilization, expulsion, banishment, or outlawing. (Fri Apr  5)
Guincho:  - ; Captain of the North: Aye; Twilight: Aye; Puzit:  - ; Rugogold: Aye; Tyler:  - .
Voting terminated by Puzit at Mon Apr  8: 'Ayes': five - 'Nays': none. The 'Ayes' have it!

Guincho called for a vote: that we revise the npc policy to defending all gondorian guards and all ranger npcs, and that hunting can be done anywhere in middle earth except in the kingdom of Rohan (Thu Apr  4)
Guincho: Aye; Captain of the North: Aye; Twilight: Aye; Puzit: Nay; Rugogold: Aye; Tyler: Aye.
Voting terminated by Puzit at Mon Apr  8: 'Ayes': eight - 'Nays': one. The 'Ayes' have it!

Guincho called for a vote: to change the borders to hunt outlaws to anywhere on middle earth except the kingdom of Rohan (Sun Apr 21)
Guincho:  - ; Rugogold:  - ; Twilight:  - ; Puzit:  - ; Zuma: Aye; Tyler:  - .
Voting terminated by Guincho at Mon Apr 22: 'Ayes': one - 'Nays': none. The 'Ayes' have it!

Guincho called for a vote: That any angmar army member or morgul mage found in the Druedain forest may be attacked if they refuse to leave when asked by a ranger. (Sat Apr 20)
Guincho: Aye; Rugogold: Aye; Twilight: Aye; Puzit: Aye; Zuma: Aye; Tyler:  - .
Voting terminated by Guincho at Mon Apr 22: 'Ayes': eight - 'Nays': none. The 'Ayes' have it!

Jaypeg called for a vote: Rangers shall only protect Ranger NPC's, in Arnor, Gondor, Ithillien and Fords or Poros, and the citizens inside the walls of Minas Tirith. (Tue May 21)
Guincho: Aye; Jaypeg: Aye; Twilight: Aye; Marisol: Aye; Zuma: Aye; Leviathon: Aye.
Voting terminated by Guincho at Tue May 21: 'Ayes': nine - 'Nays': none. The 'Ayes' have it!

Guincho called for a vote: that Mylurian should be demoted back down to pupil status since the Captain of the North promoted him without going through proper channels (i.e. through Gondor).  Mylurian did not get enough rewards to prepare himself for the company. (Thu Sep  5)
Guincho: Aye; Jaypeg:  - ; Brujah: Aye; Puzit:  - ; Ratrat:  - ; Tyler: Aye.
Voting terminated by Guincho at Thu Sep  5: 'Ayes': five - 'Nays': none. The 'Ayes' have it!

Tyler called for a vote: A pupil must attain the rank of Vigilant pupil before being assigned to a company based solely on guild xp and rewards of ranks from the Ranger of Gondor council. (Thu Sep  5)
Guincho: Aye; Jaypeg:  - ; Brujah: Aye; Puzit:  - ; Ratrat:  - ; Tyler: Aye.
Voting terminated by Tyler at Thu Sep  5: 'Ayes': five - 'Nays': none. The 'Ayes' have it!

Guincho called for a vote: That Mylurian be restored to his Crafty title , the title he had said he had before being promoted three times in a row by Jaypeg in order for him to company with the north.  After being restored to Crafty, Mylurian will still have to earn three legitimate rewards , and attain the title of Vigilant before being able to company with the north again. (Mon Sep  9)
Guincho: Aye; Jaypeg: Aye; Brujah: Aye; Puzit:  - ; Ratrat:  - ; Tyler: Aye.
Voting terminated by Guincho at Thu Sep 12: 'Ayes': seven - 'Nays': none. The 'Ayes' have it!

Guincho called for a vote: To approve the agreement with the Morgul Mages as follows GUILDS: Rangers do not enter the Tower of Black Sorcery, nor members of the Society enter into Ranger guildhalls, on pain of punishment.  As extensions to this, members of the Society are not to enter the Tower at Fornost, and Rangers are not to assault the Gates of Minas Morgul.  NPCS:  Each group may defend their guild npcs to the best of their ability.  Neither group may hunt after the attackers have left nor after the 
Guincho: Aye; Jaypeg: Aye; Brujah: Aye; Puzit:  - ; Ratrat: Aye; Tyler: Aye.
Voting terminated by Guincho at Thu Sep 12: 'Ayes': eight - 'Nays': none. The 'Ayes' have it!

Brujah called for a vote: To approve and standardize the Ithilien entrance tasking system to be installed on finalization as written in the letter stated by the Ithilien council. (Mon Sep  9)
Captain of Gondor: Aye; Jaypeg: Aye; Brujah: Aye; Tyr: Aye; Ratrat:  - ; Tyler: Aye.
Voting terminated by Brujah at Sat Sep 21: 'Ayes': eight - 'Nays': none. The 'Ayes' have it!

Guincho called for a vote: that Guariche and Tyr shall be nominated to run for Captain of Gondor (Mon Sep 16)
Captain of Gondor: Aye; Jaypeg: Aye; Brujah: Aye; Tyr: Aye; Ratrat: Aye; Tyler: Aye.
Voting terminated by Brujah at Mon Sep 23: 'Ayes': nine - 'Nays': none. The 'Ayes' have it!

Brujah called for a vote: To settle this current situation concerning Jade and his wishes to join the ranks of the Rangers.  To vote 'Aye', will recognize that he is allowed to join the rangers.  To vote 'Nay', will recognize that he is not allowed to join the rangers. (Mon Oct  7)
Guariche: Nay; Jaypeg: Aye; Brujah: Nay; Tyr: Nay; Ratrat: Aye; Tyler: Nay.
Voting terminated by Prokop at Sun Oct 27: 'Ayes': three - 'Nays': six. The 'Nays' have it!

Jaypeg called for a vote: Should Rangers be allowed to join/remain in the Elemental Worshippers guild of Calia (Sun Nov 10)
Guariche: Aye; Jaypeg: Aye; Brujah:  - ; Tyr: Aye; Ratrat:  - ; Tyler: Aye.
Voting terminated by Jaypeg at Sun Nov 17: 'Ayes': six - 'Nays': none. The 'Ayes' have it!

Brujah called for a vote:  (Mon Dec  2)
Guariche:  - ; Zuma:  - ; Brujah:  - ; Tyr:  - ; Ratrat:  - ; Tyler:  - .
Voting terminated by Brujah at Mon Dec  2: 'Ayes': none - 'Nays': none. 
Brujah called for a vote: To revise the current treatise with the Society of the Morgul Mages. (Mon Dec  2)
Guariche:  - ; Zuma:  - ; Brujah:  - ; Tyr:  - ; Ratrat:  - ; Tyler:  - .
Voting terminated by Brujah at Mon Dec  2: 'Ayes': none - 'Nays': none. 
Brujah called for a vote: To revise the current treatise with the Society of the Morgul Mages.  1> Neither guild will attack or kill npcs of the other guild.  In doing so, the opposing guild is allowed to hunt to kill the player til death or quit in the domains of Middle Earth.  2> For attacking players of the opposing guild and being caught for killing npcs for the opposing guild, they will be punished with 1 weeks time of no abilities. (Mon Dec  2)
Captain of Gondor: Aye; Zuma: Aye; Brujah: Aye; Tyr: Aye; Ratrat: Aye; Tyler: Aye.
Voting terminated by Brujah at Thu Dec  5: 'Ayes': nine - 'Nays': none. The 'Ayes' have it!

