

Telperion and Laurelin
----------------------
Before the Elves, the Firstborn of Iluvatar, came to Middle Earth,
and long before the Coming of the Sun and the Moon, the Valar built
their city Valmar in the land Valinor, that lies beyond the
Mountains of Defence in Aman. Before the western gate of Valmar,
there lies a green mound named Corollaire.
  There Yavanna Kementari sang before the Valar sitting on their
thrones in the Ring of Doom, the Mahanaxar, and under her song grew
two trees upon the Corollaire that Nienna had watered with her
tears.
  The tree that came first to full stature and bloom had leaves of
dark green that benaeth were like shining silver, and from each of
his countless flowers a dew of silver light was ever falling. He
was called Telperion in Valinor, and Silpion, and Ninquelote, and
many other names.
  The younger of the Two Trees bore leaves of a young green like
the new-opened beech; their edges were of glittering gold. Flowers
swung upon her branches in clusters of yellow flame, and from the
blossom of that tree there came forth warmth and a great light.
This was Laurelin, also called Malinalda, and Culurien, and many
names in song beside.
  In seven hours the glory of each tree waxed to full and waned
again to naught; and each awoke once more to life an hour before
the other ceased to shine. Thus in Valinor twice every day there
came an hour of softer light when both trees were faint and their
gold and silver beams were mingled.
  The first hour that Telperion shone, the white glimmer of a
silver dawn, the Valar reckoned not into the tale of hours, but
named it the Opening Hour, and counted from it the ages of their
reign in Valinor.

Galathilion and Celeborn
------------------------
  When the Eldar came to Aman, even among those that first lived
among the radiant flowers of the Tree-lit gardens in Valinor,
there were those that still longed at times to see the stars.
These built Tirion, the city of the Elves, upon the crown of the
green hill Tuna in the Calacirya, the Pass of Light, that cuts
through the Mountains of Defence.
  And since of all things made in Valinor the Eldar loved most the
White Tree, Yavanna made for them a tree like to a lesser image of
Telperion, save that it did not give light of its own being;
Galathilion it was named. The tree was planted in Tirion upon Tuna,
and there it flourished and its seedlings were many in Eldamar.
  One of these seedlings was afterwards planted in Tol Eressea, and
it prospered there and was named Celeborn, the Tree of Silver.
  Feanor, the greatest of the Eldar in arts and lore, but also the
proudest and most selfwilled, wrought the Three Jewels, the
Silmarilli, and filled them with the radiance of the Two Trees. The
jewels were coveted by Morgoth, the Enemy, who stole them and,
after destroying the Trees, took them to Middle Earth. In the War
of the Valar against Morgoth, the Silmarilli disappeared from the
face of the Earth. Of this more is told in the Silmarillion.

Nimloth the Fair
----------------
  In the Great Battle when at last Morgoth was overthrown, the
Edain alone of the kindreds of Men fought for the Valar, whereas
many others fought for Morgoth. To the Fathers of Men of the three
faithful houses rich reward was given. They were give wisdom and
power and life more enduring than any other of mortal race have
possessed. A land was made for the Edain to live in, neither part
of Middle Earth nor of Valinor, for it was sundered from either by
a wide sea. The Valar named that land Andor, Land of Gift, but the
Edain called it Elenna, which is Starwards; but also Anadune, which
is Westerness, Numenore in the High Eldarin tongue. The history of
Numenor is told in the book Akallabeth.
  The Firstborn travelled often from the haven Avallone upon
Eressea to Numenor, and they brought to Numenor many gifts: birds
of song, and flagrant flowers, and herbs of great virtue. And a
seedling they brought of Celeborn, the White Tree that grew in the
midst of Eressea. And the tree grew and blossomed in the courts of
the King in Armenelos; Nimloth the Fair it was named.

  When towards the end of the Second Age, Ar-Pharazon, last King of
Numenor, in his delusion brought Sauron to Numenor as hostage,
Sauron cunningly gained the King's confudence by flattery and lies.
And Sauron urged the King to cut down the White Tree, Nimloth the
Fair, that grew in his courts, for it was a memory of the Eldar and
of the light of Valinor.
  When Isildur, son of Elendil, heard of this, he said no word, but
went out by night and passed alone in disguise to Armenelos and to
the courts of the King, which were then forbidden to the Faithful.
He came to the place of the Tree, which was forbidden to all by
orders of Sauron, and the Tree was watched by day and night by
guards in his service. At that time, Nimloth was dark and bore no
bloom, for it was late in the autumn, and its winter was nigh; and
Isildur passed through the guards and took from the Tree a fruit
that hung upon it, and turned to go. But the guard was aroused, and
he was assailed, and fought his way out, receiving many wounds, and
he escaped, and because he was disguised it was not discovered who
had laid hands on the Tree. But Isildur came at last hardly back to
Romenna, the home of his family, and delivered the fruit to
Amandil, father of Elendil, ere his strength failed him. Then the
fruit was planted in secret, and it was blessed by Amandil; and a
shoot arose from it and sprouted in the spring. But when its first
leave opened then Isildur, who had lain long and come near to
death, arose and was troubled no more by his wounds.
  None too soon was this done; for after the assault the King
yielded to Sauron and felled the White Tree.

The White Tree of Gondor
------------------------
  When Isildur came to Middle Earth after the downfall of Numenor,
he brought with him the scion of Nimloth the Fair. He planted this
sapling in front of his house in Minas Ithil in the year 3320 of
the Second Age.
  When Sauron sacked the city 129 years later, the White Tree was
burned; but again Isildur could save a seedling. After Sauron had
been defeated, he planted it in the citadel of Minas Anor in the
second year of the Third Age, im memory of his brother Anarion,
who fell in the War of the Last Alliance against Sauron.
  In the Court of the Fountain in Minas Anor the White Tree grew
until it withered when the Great Plague devastated Gondor in the
year 1636 of the Third Age. Four years later, King Tarondor planted
a seedling of the White Tree in the same place. This White Tree
for many years grew and was symbol of Gondor, reminding the
Dunedain of their old home Westernesse, and of the light of Aman.
Even when the line of the Kings of Gondor ended with Earnur, when
he went to Minas Morgul to fight the Lord of Morgul in 2050 TA and
was never heard of again, the White Tree took no damage.
  But when Belecthor II, the twenty first Ruling Steward of Gondor,
died in 2872 TA, the White Tree also died in Minas Tirith; but it
was left standing 'until the King returns', for no seedling could
be found.
