Document Created August 27, 2009

Navarre gave us all homework. Here are my personal answers to the questions
that he posed. We will update this document as our discussion progresses.

Q: What is the combat aid of being able to wield a two handed weapon in one hand?

A: One handed weapons are limited at 50 pen. Two handed ones are limited
   at 60 pen. If we go by that alone, I'd say that the combat aid is:

      F_PENMOD(60,100) / F_PENMOD(50,100) = ~18%.

   For roundness's sake, let's assume that giving this ability equals a
   20% combat aid for the guild.

Q: What kind of constraints should there be on two handed weapons for being
   allowed to be wielded in 1 hand?

A: It should be thematic. Only guilds which can justify the theme should
   have this. Minotaurs and Ogres are the only ones that can wield limited
   weapons this way.

Q: Should all special attacks be made to engage combat? (Rangers brawl do 
   for example, but most if not all others do).

A: Yes, absolutely. Exceptions will be made on a case by case basis.
   I don't think Ranger's brawl should fall into that category.

Q: Should guilds be allowed to heal themselves without the use of a spell? 
   (drain life kind of attack special, regeneration etc).

A: Yes, I believe theme trumps any rules we make here.

Q: Should ranger type guilds be allowed to 'purchase' foreign guild type skills
   for a higher tax? It seems that will go against the rules we state about you
   having to pick a type of guild. That a fighter/cleric type guild is not
   acceptable (for one guild slot). That sounds precisely what a ranger type guild
   is if you allow them to purchase higher skills/spells for extra tax.

A: The number of alien skills you can purchase need to be limited. Either
   by the number of actual skills you can, or the actual skill levels
   you can buy. This is again a thematic justification. I'll try and see
   if I can come up with a solid number. Feel free to suggest some limits.

Q: Currently rules state that race guilds may not train specialised fighting
   skills as defined in /sys/ss_types.h. There are currently some race guilds 
   that allow this. Should we enforce this rule? or allow for a change? My vote 
   is enforce the rule.

A: Theme trumps these issues. I prefer not to give out combat aid in racial
   guilds at all. Which racial guilds have this issue?


Q: How much combat aid should dark vision give? (how do we calculate 
   existing dark vision)

A: Darkness fighting is pretty broken. Darkvision allows someone to have
   a 900% combat aid against someone who cannot see. It obviously doesn't
   apply when the opponent can see in the dark also, so it's hard to
   set a solid combat aid for it. The ability should be thematic, and
   it should carry a semi-heavy tax, imo. And we should try and fix
   darkness fighting. :)

Q: Are there some abilities that is too powerful for layman guilds? Which? 
   Stun, See invisible, invisible, etc.

A: No, I think laymans can have many of the same abilities. It's just
   important to make sure it's thematic and that the combined abilities
   that they have do not exceed what a layman should have. The abilities
   should always be judged in the light of how it enhances the layman.

Q: Should peace spells be allowed at all in guilds? I think we should remove 
   them. What about in Laymans? Isn't it too powerful for layman guilds?

A: I'm of the opinion that peace spells should not be allowed for PvP, but
   can be appropriate for PvE. 

Q: Should peace items be allowed in the game? My suggestion is to take the old
   tome peace and melt armour spell, re-open the quest, and make the spells only
   work for guild-less people. Its a defense while being guildless. That's what it
   was designed to be, but it checks on fighter type guilds. Not all guild types.

A: I agree.

Q: Should we have the limitation on layman guilds that state that you cannot 
   have regeneration ability as layman?

A: Again, a thematic decision. If the layman can justify regeneration, I
   don't think we should limit it.

Q: Should we have the limitation on layman guilds that state that you cannot 
   have offensive spells, or clerical spells together with an attack special?

A: Actually, in the new magic scheme that we have, we want people to be
   able to have magic attack specials that allow grinding. They shouldn't be
   allowed at the same time as other specials, but the details have to
   be worked out.

Q: Should we allow ranger layman guild, and if we do their combat aid and 
   skills should have the 75% rule applied? Which means at most 37.5% combat 
   aid, and at most 45 in skill?

A: Ranger layman guild seems a bit silly. It's supposed to be a hobby you
   take up on the side. So unless there's really good justification for one
   I'm inclined to say that we not have them.

Q: Should there be a max limit of how many spells a layman spell caster 
   guild can have?

A: This should be on a case by case basis. There should be no max if it's
   thematic. I'd rather have many good thematic spells than one bad combined
   spell just because someone is trying to go underneath the spell
   numbers limit.

Q: Should there be a max limit of how many spell a ranger type occ guild can 
   have? If spellcasting specialists have 14-20 spells, how many should one 
   that is not specifically great at spellcasting be allowed to have?

A: See answer to previous question. A ranger type should overall only
   provide 50%-75% of the benefits of a full occ caster guild.

Q: When can a guild have auto-sneak? Race guild? Layman, Occ? Which
   style/type of guilds can have it? What should the cost be etc? Kenders 
   in Krynn is defined as "Thief" type. What's that?

A: Any guild with sneak abilities should have the option of auto-sneak.
   It's just a playability tool to help people who don't have good clients
   which can do it anyway. I don't think we should necessarily charge
   for this.

Q: How much aid does it give to relieve encumberment and make someone else 
   heavy?

A: We can actually calculate how much aid something like that gives. I'm
   more inclined to just charge tax for it.

Q: How much aid should create darkness spell give? Should we allow any 
   guild to be able to create darkness ever?

A: I don't like darkness spells because of the reasons that darkness
   is broken. Giving a guild darkness spells and darkvision at the 
   same time is a recipe for being broken. That is, until we fix
   darkness fighting.

Q: Should teleport and team teleport abilities be allowed for layman 
   guilds? Perhaps other than to their guild home?

A: This should be limited for laymans. Going back to guild home should
   be allowed. But teleporting to avoid ships or transport teams
   should be occ ability, unless theme justifies it.

Q: Should we change A_SHIELD to cover more than the arm? People 
   override it anyway.

A: I'm not sure I agree with this. Different shields do different
   things. I think perhaps we should have a standard for how good
   a shield is if it covers more than one place.

Q: How do we judge spells/abilities that raise non-combat affecting 
   skills, and faster mana regeration / mana draining?

A: Based on the combat aid they give. We can determine most of
   these in our simulated tests.

Q: Should mana regaining abilities be allowed by anyone other than occ
   spellcasters. (mage or cleric type).

A: Mana regaining abilities probably should be very limited. And yes,
   should be limited only to occ for direct mana regen.

Q: How many abilities should we allow cramped together into one: For 
   example the SU has a special called Sway, which has 5 abilities in 
   one.

A: This is what I referred to earlier as being excessive to fit under
   some sort of limit. These types of things should be split up
   into more consummable pieces based on theme. 2-3 should be a limit,
   I think.

Q: Currently some (most?) of our spellcaster guilds have more than 1/3 
   of their spells give combat aid. Should this rule then be enforced 
   or adapted, or removed?

A: This is a silly requirement. I think this is based on theme and
   people work around it anyway. Let's just focus on making good guilds
   and abilities that will make gameplay enjoyable.

Q: It has been noticed that rangers have 'ranger-only' peace rooms in 
   the realm outside of their guild halls. Do we want to allow such type 
   of rooms that give significant benefit to one guild over others? It 
   seems that outside the guildhomes, all rooms should be equally peaceful 
   for all players, no matter their guild.

A: This is really up to the guildmaster and the domain liege to decide.
   For Rangers, I think this is a thematic thing. Nazgul can sit on
   their beasts and fly around, so can DA. These types of things can't
   be avoided.

Q: Do we allow query_no_attack props on guild specials such as move behind 
   and rescue, as those will break the guild special of people they are 
   used against.

A: I believe these have been removed already. You can always attack
   someone who is MB and Rescued, with some consequences.

Q:  How do we want to change the mana pool to help balance the spellcaster 
    guilds. A much faster recovering with a much smaller pool seems to be able 
    to make us fit the theme. A spellcaster can nuke his enemies, but will then 
    need some recovery time. It will not only be a bad thing, it will make them 
    able to use the high damage spells for grinding too, since mana recover 
    faster.

    Since damage spells take resistance into account on the enemy, how should 
    we change heal spells to work to make it equal?

A: Currently, the plan is 3x smaller mana pool, and 3x higher regen rate.
   We can tweak this as needed. I've created the mana shadow to simulate this
   and all new caster guilds should use it until it becomes global. As for
   resistance on healing, I've always subscribed to the D&D concept where
   if you want the effect, you don't resist it. Things like healing would
   fall into that category. That's not how Genesis works today though, so
   I'm open to discussion on that.
