
O R D E R    O F    T H E    B L A C K    F L A M E 


The Order of the Black Flame enforces the will of    
Kossuth in this realm. In doing the bidding of the  
elders in the Order, A zealot serve Kossuth and help     
prepare the world to receive the purifying fire of   
Kossuth.                                             

The Order is hierarchical in the meaning that those  
who have reached a higher terrace of enlightenment   
have come closer to total purification and           
understanding of the will of Kossuth, and are worthy 
of the service.                                     
                                                              
Through purification and service, the Zealots work   
to bring themselves and the world closer to          
Kossuth's fire so that the ultimate purification     
of life may take place.                                    
       
The Order of the Black Flame has smoldered like      
embers long enough. It is time to fan the flames     
and rebuild the Order stronger than ever, for        
Kossuth still lives, and through him the zealots will be      
reforged in our ultimate form.




A B O U T

The Order of the Black Flame is originally an 
assassin-order hailing from Thay. Post-spellplague,
they vanished and resurfaced again at several spots
in Faerun, and some hosted and trained by the 
Fire Knives. 

It's a laymanguild that functions as supplement to
any, or most occ guilds is deemed fit to join. Joining
is free to anyone, and is not regulated by a third party.

Thematically, Fire Knives train the members, and serve
as military advisors to the zealots. 

Initially, the design was heading in the direction of
using alchemy and potions to achieve effects, but since
Genesis don't have the proper infrastructure to host it,
the guild is flagged as 'ranger' since it both have melee
components and spells.

Way less versatile than a pure casterguild, but equally
strong in terms of combat aid.




S P E L L S   A N D   A B I L I T I E S

Spy network
-----------
Members may purchase (or craft) "spy nodes" (limited to x
per member, which are placed in rooms in Genesis. These nodes
will register whoever is passing them, and store name, direction,
time and name of node in a mapping.

Any member of x rank can use a command to check if y player have
passed any of the active nodes, and only the latest entry applies.

Nodes only register persons it can see.

This idea was suggested to Cherek instead of just a regular standard
scry since it offers something new to the game.


Combat special
--------------
The guild sports a 45 caid combat special. It requires the weapon
to be engulfed in black flames (summoned by the member).


Spells
------
The guild offers a limited set of spells.

1. Frenzy          Regular 30 caid haste.
2. Flamepurge      Regular cleanse
3. Reconstitute    Regular fatigue regen.
4. Medicate        Regular 50 caid heal
5. Flashbang       Aoeblind (vs enemies that have
                   active darkvision, either naturally
                   or supernaturally)
6. Polymorph       Change adjectives from random list. Limited
                   polymorph

All spells except the heal requires crafted components through
alchemy.				   