Entrance Quest for Death Knights:
----------------------------------

               'Leave behind the mortal coil,         
          come feast with us in this banquet of death.' 

                   'Honour and Loyalty               
                 holds me above the Abyss           
                  beyond life and death.'           

                 'Souls shall be reaped               
                    and revenge shall                
                  fill my hollow being.'            

                  'Only Blood sweetens                
                     my time in this                    
                     Immortal Curse.'                

                 'Est Sularus oth Mithas                 
                     shall ring out                      
                  hollow and mockingly                   
                through these dark halls.'          



The quest has been divided into 5 steps. The clue to each
step is written in a poem which can be found in the Keep.

STEP 1:
The player is allowed to try to solve the entrance quest, this
is initiated by one of the council members or guildmaster. The
player will also gain access to some of the guild hall of the 
death knights, but only enough access to reach the Lord of
Dargaard Keep, Loren Soth.

STEP 2:
The player must be evil, and 'pledge loyalty' before Lord Soth
If the player isn't evil enough the Lord will attack him :)

STEP 3:
A knight of solamnia (NPC) is hidden at the lower level of the
Dargaard Keep. The player must find this knight and quickly
kill him, this will fill the players hollow being, as he shall
have his revenge over the Knights of Solamnia.

STEP 4:
For this next step the player will need a sacrificial knife,
a wooden bowl and key.
Three prisoners are hidden within the Keep, a child, a young
man and a old woman. All of them are locked in their cell, so
the player has to use the previously obtained key to gain access
to them. By killing any of the prisoners with the knife, the player
will be able to fill the bowl with blood and drink it. If the
player choose the young prisoner he will be allowed to continue with
the quest, otherwise all the props and bits will be cleared here, and
he will have to start over (Both of the other prisoners are too weak
and not worthy).

STEP 5:
There's a mysterious room in the Keep. The room is a quiet and 
peaceful room, whenever anyone speaks here, the room echoes it, 
unless the player is trying to solve the entrance quest for the
death knights and he shouts: "Est Sularus oth Mithas". If this 
happens the room will become blocked and a fire begins to spread, 
and the  player will die. When he awakens again he will have become
a death knight.


