~1~ Secrets & Skills 

    Let it be known that the first and most important rule of the Death Knights of Krynn is that no        
    kind of secrets or internal piece of information is to be given to non-Knights. Bear always in          
    mind that Lord Soth does not take it kindly when his servants, even when they have been loyal for   
    centuries, start to disobey those vital rules.

- -\What the living do not know, they fear. Let fear be our ally/--
  
    Examples:
    - Obvious, for example is, that you do not talk about skills or abilities like spells or even use spells 
      in front of the living. An exception may be a life or death situation on a boat.
    - Less obvious are that you do not talk about spell components.
    - What may be not obvious is that you mustn't talk about which Death Knights are walking   
      currently in the realms nor shouldn't you talk about our total number. After all there are people in          
      the realms who do not know the old myths about the 13 loyal servants of Lord Soth.
      Use your head when you have to make a decision. If you are not sure try simply to stay on the save  
      side and be quiet.    


~2~ Death Knights & Mortals

     2.1.  > Fights <
    Many pages are filled in Astinus' books in Palanthas of the Death Knights' ruthless and        
    abominable deeds and nearly as many describe our hatred for the living. How we love to quench     
    the small flickering light in their bodies which they call life and see their spirit depart.
    To be sure: Astinus the scribe is right, as he never has written down something wrong before since  
    Krynn's creation. 
    
    Mind, though, that our main reason of existence is to be Lord Soth's tools helping to fulfill his will 
    and accomplish his goals.
 
    However, we are only thirteen Death Knights which can be send out of Dargaard Keep since the  
    rest of the army is kept back in defense whereas our foes are many.

    Therefore_NO_private feuds or vendettas. No senseless killing or bullying which might draw 
    attention to us! The missions for our lord can be best accomplished when 
    Krynn's people are lulled into safety.

    To your own safety: The spirit of the rules should be clear now especially after reading the 
    examples below. If you should bend the rules in order to pass them or simply break them then be  
    sure to find yourself in the hellfire of the council's fury.

    
--\A Death Knight may be beyond a living but you are no match against their numbers./--    

    
    If a fight with mortals should occur be sure to bring ALWAYS very good evidence and reasons to 
    the council of the Death Knights (see below).

    
Examples:
    - A Very good example would be that you or a subject under your current protection is attacked.  
    - Another good example is that you are the target of thievery.
    - A good example would be EXTREME provocations from a person. However, this  should be 
      handled carefully. Always ask yourself why this person does the provocation and what he wants to 
      achieve with it.
    - Very bad examples would be "He pisses me", "He is a kender", "I was bored", etc.    
   

   2.2. >Spells in fights<
    
    As already said above, do_not_use spells against mortals if it is not absolutely vital. Use them only  
    if you cannot retreat for a reason. Like being on a ship.


--\The smart one never shows all of his cards and has always an ace up his sleeve/--

 

   2.3.  >Bearings in fights<     
        
   When you have to fight, then fight honorably. Do not attack  weaponless foes  also refrain from  
   ambushes. After all you were once true knights at the time the Istarian empire was at its peak and 
   we are still somewhat bound to the Measure.

 
--\Be sure to fight for Lord Soth's cause and not for your own/--

    

    2.4. > Old relations and grudges <

    You are dead know! Your ties to your former life are severed. You have no friends anymore. When 
    you travel with mortals there must be a reason to do so which futhers the goals of Dargaard Keep.  
    Important: old grudges and vendettas also have gone to the grave. Consider them over. Be sure 
    to inform people which might be affected by it when you join the Death Knights.

    
--\Your old ties to the world are dead and you live...well, at least you still walk/-- 




~3~ Killing servants of Dargaard Keep

    If the need should arise then do it, however, be sure to have valid reasons to do so. Absolutely 
    refrain from slaughtering too many of our loyal allies.


--\A pawn may be sacrificed for the greater good/--



~4~ Alter Egos

    (Or widely refered to as "seconds"). It is absolutely discouraged to spend time with seconds because 
    there are only thirteen Death Knights in all of the realms. If you do not feel honoured by that or 
    should you are  not satisfied with your place in the Dargaard Keep then leave those halls and give 
    someone who is more motivated a chance to serve as a Death Knight. Mind that this only is meant 
    for using seconds. Of course we understand that people has phases of inactivity because of real life
    and its obligations.   


--\To be one of the thirteen is an honour one should always be aware of/--



~5~  Manners 

    Remember your noble heritage and your title. Act that way and remember the peasants out there  
    that they have to refer to you as Lord or Lady. Avoid too much contact with the living (see 2.3.). 
    The dead have not much to tell the living.

--\Manner set you apart from a peasant, not your clothes/--
