Message: 9
From   : Kieryn
Subject: Tomb Quest/Captured Souls Quest (forwarded) (forwarded)
Date   : Jan 12 1997

Author : Alaron
Date   : Sep 18 1996

Author : Alaron
To     : Korat, Aridor, Maniac, Denis and Elessar
CC     : Alaron
Date   : Sep 18 1996


Some of you may have already heard about this idea, but
I'll spec it out in a little more detail here.

Ok... little bit of a story... There are these seven 
elven clerics who have been studying and worshipping
in solitary places, as they have been striving for
a very quiet place to carry out their work.. They
find this old tomb in the graveyard (yes, the 
graveyard the vamps used to hang out near) .. It
seems like the perfect place.

So, they work up a big stone altar in the middle of
the old tomb. They start working on translating some
ancient scrolls which they believe were written by
prophets and avatars of the great God of light himself,
Telan-Ri. The scrolls describe intricate rituals used
in communing with the deities, namely Telan-Ri.

It becomes apparent to them that it is required that
seven people participate in each of the rituals, and they
vow never to disclose the information they have found
in the scrolls, as it would be too dangerous in the
wrong hands.

Well, a few years later, they've gotten into some very
heavy magic and some very heavy rituals. One day,
some drow elves were out in the graveyard looking
for hunt and sport, when they noticed a strange light
coming out of one of the tombs. They crept closer
and managed to get to a crack in the stone wall
big enough to allow them to view the ritual.

There, before the eyes of the Drow, the God of Light
appeared out of thin air and manifested himself before
the Circle of Seven. The Circle asked Telan-Ri to do
a favor for them , and with a wave of his hand, an
enormous, long-dead forest within Emerald came
to life. They thanked him and Telan-Ri was gone
with a flash of light.

Being very intelligent Drow, and having dabbled in
the magical arts, they knew of a soul-stealing ritual
which could trap and harness the magic of any creature
with a soul. 

Later that night, when the Circle of Seven had laid
down for the night's rest, the Drow who had witnessed the
summoning that afternoon plus several of their
most well-armed friends snuck into the tomb.

Within seconds, every member of the Circle of 
Seven had been bound, gagged and thrown to the base
of the altar they had erected in honor of Telan-Ri.

What followed was an incredibly slow, agonizing 
process of ritual killings where each member of
the Circle of Seven was butchered, skinned alive, and
hung from the ceiling with an ornamental dagger 
imbedded in the spine. During this process, a wizard
had been incanting ancient spells, storing the souls
of the not quite departed into small, glowing
blue spheres.

When the wizard tried to utilize one of the souls to
focus its magic.
(woops) When the wizard tried to focus the magic of the
soul contained within, nothing happened.
He assumed that his magic was insufficient to control
the soul within the sphere, and had the Drow seek
out very well hidden places to safely store the
spheres until such time as he could learn enough
to harness their power.

What he was unaware of was that the souls had no
magic, and that they had been channeling all of
their power from Telan-Ri, the God of Light, so he
would never be able to control them.

End Story.

Player objective is to find the tomb in the emerald
graveyard, read the tome which describes the
horrible ritualistic killing of the Circle of
Seven, and then go in search of the seven blue
spheres. Once the player has found all seven spheres,
the player must take the dagger that was used
to rid the victim of life and break the sphere
with it (note using the wrong dagger awakens big
bad npc hanging out in coffin!). Once all seven
are broken properly, the souls/spirits of the
Circle of Seven are set free, and a token of
their thanks (in addition to xp) is given 
to the player... I haven't quite figured out what
kind of autoloading item they'll get in return for
this quest yet, though.

What I'd like is for each of you to store one
of the spheres in your domain, hidden somewhere
nice and tidy or something ... I'll do the 
coding for the spheres and for the npc in the 
tomb and all that stuff. ... Also, we'll probably
need to have some mention of the spheres somewhere
in a library somewhere to lead the players to
finding all seven.... thats up to you folks :)

In any case, let me know what you think of the 
idea... to view the tomb as it is now (without
any quest functions in it), goto
/d/Emerald/kroad/graveyard/atomb1.c

Its got a pretty creepy feel to it, but I think
it fits the quest pretty well...and its not
an easy place to find, the player has to 
'crawl through opening' in the room outside
the tomb in the graveyard.

Thanks for listening (reading?)

/Alaron

