
Once, a long time ago, the Gods of the World decided that
there were too much evil in the world. Attempting to create
order again, they transferred some of their mighty powers
to nine new-born humans on the island Roke. As they grew up,
they slowly learned about the powers within them, and finally
they learned how to control the mighty powers of the world.
As the masters of magic grew up they decided to teach other
people how to use the magic of the Gods by controlling the body
and mind.

As the wizards of Roke became more and more powerful they 
started to follow the original intentions of the Gods, 
and soon every island in Earthsea had its own wizard to
protect it from the evil creatures and forces of the world. 

Among these great wizards we must especially mention the
protector of Gont, Ogion the Silent, who seventeen years
ago stopped a mighty earthquake with his powerful magic.
Ogion is, as all true wizards, often away on long walks to
study the world and seek inner peace, which is very important
to the wizard's ability to concentrate upon the spellcasting.

Its very important for the wizard to know the true name of the
object or the living he is going to cast a spell on.
All things in the world, every stone, every drop of water has its
true name. Just like a stone every mortal has a true name but you
have to be given your true name by someone who has the power of
reading your soul and finding the true name within you.
One of these powerful men is Ogion. He is told to live somewhere
in the forest north of Re Albi. If you wish to study wizardry at Roke,
it would be a good idea to try to find Ogion and convince him that you
are able to carry your true name.

If another wizard knows your true name he has your life in his hands 
since he is able to command you to do anything. Therefor it might
be a good idea to bury your true name deep inside yourself because
there are wizards who are powerful enough to read your mind and see
your true name even if you dont speak it.(Such as Ogion)

But on the other hand ...
... it could be a very good idea to tell your true name to a wizard
that you trust with your life since he could rescue you from evil
and maybe even death.

(Another good idea is to 'mread' this book.)
