Elendil founded Gondor and Arnor, with his sons Isildur and Anarion.
Elendil and Anarion died fighting Sauron in the Siege of Barad-dur, 3440 SA.
Isildur gave the rule of Gondor to Meneldil, son of Anarion, in 2 TA,
then get killed travelling to Arnor.
Ostoher rebuilt the city Minas Anor. In his reign the first Easterlings
attacked Gondors borders.
Tarostar defeated them and drove them out, changed name to Romendacil 'East-
Victor'. Slain by fresh hordes of Easterlings.
Turambar won much territory eastwards.
Tarannon was the first Ship-king, built navies and extended Gondor along
west and south coast. Took the name Falastur 'Lord of the Coasts'.
Earnil I repaired the ancient haven Pelargir, and built a great navy,
took Umbar and made it a fortress. Lost in storm off Umbar.
Ciryandil continued building ships, but killed fighting Haradrim at Umbar.
Ciryaher defeated the Haradrim at the Battle of the crossing of River Harnen.
Haradwaith comes under Gondor, 1050. Takes name Hyarmendacil 'South-Victor'.
Gondor at height of power.
Atanatar Alcarin lived in great splendour, started waning of Gondor.
Watch upon Mordor neglected.
In Narmacils reign Easterlings started attacking again.
Narmacil made Minalcar Regent in 1240. Minalcar dealt mostly with
the Northmen of Rhovanion. Led army that defeated the Easterlings east
of the Sea of Rhun. Took name Romendacil II.
Fortified Anduin, built the pillars of the Argonath at Emyn Muil,
forbidding strangers to pass them.
Valacar married daughter of King of Rhovanion. Rebellions started in
South Gondor for the fear of the royal line growing short lived,
and for the neglect of the south while dealing mostly with Rhovanion.
Eldacar born in Rhovanion, not accepted by southerners. Kin-strife.
Usurped by Castamir who killed his eldest son.
Osgiliath burned.
Beat Castamir later with army from north.
Rebels fled with Navy to Umbar, going independent.
Minardil slain at Pelargir by Corsairs of Umbar.
Plague spread from the east, under Telemnar.
Telemnar and all his children died, and many people of Gondor.
White Tree withered and died. Tarondor replanted it.
He moved the King's house permanently from Osgiliath to Minas Anor.
Longest reign of the kings.
Telumehtar retook Umbar 1810. Took name Umbardacil 'Umbar-Victor'.
Narmacil II slain in battles with the Wainriders from the east.
Rhovanion lost, borders now at Anduin.
Calimehtar won great victory upon Dagorlad 1899. Peril averted.
Ondoher renew communications with Arnor/Arthedain.
Appoints Pelendur to be Steward.
Ondoher and his sons killed by Wainrider invasion 1944 in Ithilien.
Umbar lost.
Arvedui of Arthedain claims crown of Gondor. Pelendur rejects.
Earnil, Captain of the Southern Army wins against Haradrim at River Poros.
Chased Wainriders out. Crowned king.
Earnur travelled north to aid Arthedain, but too late, it was crushed by Angmar.
Together with Cirdan and Glorfindel crushed Angmar.
Nazguls take Minas Ithil in 2002.
Earnur king in 2043, and challenged by Witch-king. 
Mardil the steward restrained him. 
Challenged again in 2050, and disappeared at Minas Morgul.

Mardil first Ruling Steward of Gondor.



 
