*** This file is not up to date at all. Many of the features listed here
*** were never implemented. It is kept for historical curiousity only.
***
*** Gorboth
Balance Considerations Pro and Con for the Army of Darkness

Advantages:

Able to wield two-handed weapons in one hand.
As per above, able to wield two separate two-handed weapons simultaneously.
At top level, superior guru two-handed combat skill augments above features.
Bonus AC added to all hitlocations due to thick Ogre hide.
Strength stat augmented by 200%
Constitution stat augmented by 150%
Special attack has the change to damage and break armours.
Special attack has the chance to force enemy to drop their shield.
Special attack has the chance to launch enemy into the next room.
Special defence maneuver has chance to block incoming attacks.
Able to purchase high AC armour at Forge.
Able to purchase high DC weapons at Forge.

Disadvantages:

Unable to wield single-handed weapons.
Unable to wear any armour in the game other than those produced by
  the Ogre Forge.
Unable to use shields.
Intelligence stat reduced by 50%.
Wisdom stat reduced by 50%.
Dexteroty stat reduced by 10%.
While using special defense, the ogre is unable to attack.
Armour and Weapons at the forge are extremely expensive, and require
  the ogre to bring in scavanged weapons and armours to melt down for
  raw materials.
Ogres are unable to sneak.
Ogres are unable to hide.

Ability checks and balances:

I. Ogres are able to wield two-handed weapons in one hand.
    A. Advantages:
        1. Two-handed weapons can have higher hit/pen values.
        2. This means that ogres can double-wield two-handed weapons.
        3. In conjunction with superior guru 2-handed combat, this is
           an awesome factor in combat.
    B. Balancing features and rationale:
        1. Ogres are unable to wield anything *but* two-handed weapons.
        2. Most weapons in the game are one-handed.
        3. There are relatively few good options in terms of
               two-handed weapons out there.
II. Ogres receive a bonus AC to all hitlocations due to tough hide.
    A. Advantages:
        1. This means that ogres are naturally armoured at all times.
        2. In conjunction with ogre-sized armour, this means that
           ogres get a bonus on top of normal armour AC.
    B. Balancing features and rationale:
        1. Ogres can only wear armour forged specifically by their own
           guild smith. All other armour in the game does not fit
           them.
        2. This means that all armours that grant magical properties
           can not be worn by ogres.
III. Ogres receive an increase to their strength stat of 200%.
    A. Advantages:
        1. This means that ogres can carry a lot!
        2. This may artificially increase the stat average of a player.
    B. Balancing features and rationale:
        1. In order to use the forge, ogres must bring back massive
           amounts of scavenged armours and weapons to melt down. They
           will need to be able to carry a lot to accomplish this.
        2. Strength doesn't really affect combat in any way, so this
           isn't any really huge advantage.
        3. Artificially increasing stat average is actually not good
           for the player due to the fact that exp is granted based on
           the ratio of your stat average as compared to that of your
           slain opponent.
        4. Ogres are slow, and receive a 10% dex penalty.
IV. Ogres receive an increase to their constitution stat of 150%.
    A. Advantages:
        1. This means that ogres get a big boost to their hitpoints!
        2. Ogres will be able to travel farther without being tired
           as quickly.
    B. Balancing features and rationale:
        1. Ogres cannot use shields! The game is balanced in such a way
           that shields have become one of the single greatest factors
           in effectively protecting onesself in combat. Without
           shields the ogres will need extra con to stand toe-to-toe
           with their fellow players.
        2. Ogre defensive skills are not trained particularly high.
           Both parry and defense max out at 75.
V. Ogres are able to purchase elite armours and weapons at their forge.
    A. Advantages:
        1. This means that players will have the ability to double-wield
           60/60 clubs in combat.
        2. This means that players will have the ability to wear
           armour that is potentially AC 60 in most hitlocations.
    B. Balancing features and rationale:
        1. These items are extremely expensive, costing 200 plats at
           the highest level.
        2. More difficult than normal weapons to create, these weapons
           will require that players bring to the forge between 25 and
           50 magical weapons or armour to be melted down. This will not
           be easy at all! My balancing estimates have determined that
           this should take players weeks to accomplish for a single
           purchase, unless they are the most extreme hardcore players,
           in which case it would require up to 10 hours of continues
           single-minded effort for a single purchase.
        
