BOOK XII - The History of Argos
THE REIGN OF COSMOPOLITUS (266 AT - Present)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cosmopolitus, the ninth and current ruler of Argos, shares his father's
wonder about the world beyond the mountains of his isolated valley.
He grew up enthralled by the stories which his mentor Alexis told him
about his travels to foreign lands. Cosmopolitus curiosity almost had
him killed once, as he tried to force his winged horse to fly over the
mountains west of the valley, when his horse reared and almost lost him.
 
Cosmopolitus assumed the throne in the Two Hundred and Sixty Sixth Year AT,
amidst the worrisome doubts of some in the Tritheonian orders and the
military. Immediately after his coronation, he gave his life-long mentor
Alexis the title of Sage of Argos, with responsibility for running the
Academy and taking care of the Library.
 
The worst fears of the isolationists came true in the Year 278 AT when the king
ordered that an expedition be sent to chart a path through the mountains
to Calia. Debate raged within the Council about Cosmopolitus' actions,
though they had no real power to force the strong-willed ruler to
change his course. Finally, in the Year 282 AT, Cosmopolitus ordered
the construction of a road, made of the finest marble from the pits,
to be built through the forest and over the mountains to connect
Argos with the outside world.
 
Cosmopolitus' action sent shock waves through the community of strict
isolationists, though they took no direct action, believing that it
would be impossible to build the road through the mountains, and that
the builders would be afraid to cross the divine border of the
mountaintops. The struggle was long and hard, and many workers ran
in fear as the road reached the peak of the mountains, but others
inspired by the prospects of connecting to the outer world bravely
completed the descent of the road down the far side of the mountains.
 
In the Year 300 AT, only last year, the movement of isolationists boiled
over and began to plot Cosmopolitus' overthrow. The movement was lead
by Kretos, the Commander of the Army of Argos, and secretly supported
by many others, commoners and influential citizens alike. The attempted
overthrow of Cosmopolitus by the army under Kretos lead to a surprising
split amongst the city's soldiers, over a majority of them remaining
loyal to the throne. The battle which ensued between Kretos' rebels
and the loyal soldiers ended quickly, Kretos surprised by the apparent
mutiny of his forces. Kretos and his army escaped into the forest,
where they continue to plan the overthrow of the king.
 
Kretos current strategy is to discourage outsiders from visiting Argos
by placing troops along the marble road to attack visitors and
road builders alike, while he plans a way to rid the throne of
Cosmopolitus. It is also believed that he plans to make allies
of the Dephonians in the forest, whose whereabouts have been unknown
for decades. Many also fear that some amongst the Orders and many
common citizens alike will rebel against the king should Kretos attack
the city in force.
 
Cosmopolitus, sure of his actions, continues to
try and convince the populace that Argosian culture is now strong
enough to survive contact with other cultures, and welcomes friendly
visitors to Argos in an attempt to show all that such will be to
the benefit of Argos. The debate continues in the Council as to how
they should advise the king, a debate which spreads throughout all
the citizenry. Surely of all thing, Cosmopolitus' reign shall be noted
for his opening Argos to the outside world and the construction of
the marble road to Calia. The saga continues...
