BOOK XI - The History of Argos
THE RULE OF BIBLIONUS (222-266 AT)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Biblionus, the eigth monarch of Argos, assumed the throne in the Two
Hundred and Twenty Second Year AT. He was the son of Thespia, the only
female ruler of Argos, and Sparinus, an influential military leader.
Biblionus followed the footsteps of his mother, spending much of his
time in the Academy and under the tutelage of the priests and priestesses
of the three temples. He became a very educated prince, and at the urging
of his father, studied the martial arts and military strategy as well.
 
Biblionus had a thirst for knowledge, which eventully lead him to wonder
about the world outside of Argos, about which nothing was known. He
became friends and shared his dreams with a commoner named Alexis,
also a seeker of wisdom. After becoming king, Biblionus decided to have
the knowledge of Argos written and collected. He eventually had a
Library built in the city, a repository of all he could find written.
 
Later in his life, his friend Alexis begged him to be allowed to leave
Argos to explore the outer world. Since this contact with the outside
was forbidden by Argosian custom, Alexis slipped outside the city, but
with the secret blessings of his king. Several decades past and Alexis
finally returned to Argos, full of knowledge and stories to tell about
the outside world. Biblionus had Alexis write down all he had discovered
and placed in the Library. However, the Council decided that such
information was dangerous, and under pressure, Biblionus removed the
books from the Library. Alexis continued to tell stories to those who
asked and who were sworn to secrecy. One of Alexis' most avid admirers
was Cosmopolitus, Biblionus' son and heir to the throne.
 
Biblionus died in the Year 266 AT, leaving the legacy of the city's
Library, and planting the seeds of the notion of contact with the
outside world with his life-long friend Alexis and his son.
