   The Gwaedhil (S. ``Oath-sisters''; sing. ``Gwaedhel'') are a pair of 
weapons which sreve as visible tokens of the oath that Merro, the King of the
Mountains, swore to Isildur upon the Covenant Stone of Erech. These arms - 
a sword and a spear - were forged by the Elves in the Tirith Aear, at Amroth's
behest, as a gift to aid Elendil's sons in the securing of their newly-founded
realm. Fashioned from meteoric iron that Elves had found upon the hights of the
White Mountains, the twin blades woven with spells of strength to keep safe the
words of faith and alliance which they commemorated.
   When Merro's oath was spoken, Isildur presented the spear to the Morachd;
but the sword he entrusted to Edhelion (who was then the Captain of the 
Faithful in Pelargir), appointing him the warden of the convenant stone at
Erech. The Gwaedhel-sword remained in the possession of the prince of Belfalas
until the time of Lothirion who, at King Tarannon's command, bestowed the blade
upon his son Gundor, chosen to be Prince of Mornan in T.A. 831. Likewise, the 
Gwaedhel-spear was passed down from Merro to his son, and in turn to hi 
grandson Morthec, who broke the oath in S.A. 3434.
   The Oathbreaking caused the appearence and enchanted character of the 
weapons to change. Whereas in origin they had gleamed bright as light of the 
sun, now their surface were blackened as the starless night. Formerly they had
brought their wielders fortitude and strength of spirit, now their very 
presence exuded an aura of grim foreboding visions of some final reckoning that
must one day achived. The Gwaedhel-spear followed Morthec into the Path of the
Dead, but the Gwaedhel-sword continued to be handed down from father to son in
the line of Mornan's princes, until the time of Kin-strife, when Prince 
Maeglin's rebellious son sided with the confederates and brought the blade 
with him into exile in Umbar in T.A 1448.
   The subsequent fate of the Gwaedhel-sword is not recorded in any of the 
histories, but it is said that Morthec Gruan wielded the Gwaedhel-spear when 
at last he was summoned to fulfill his oath by Aragorn. After defeating the
Corsairs at Pelargir on Gwaeron (March) 22, T.A. 3019, Morthec, released from
his curse, broke the Gwaerhel-spear in two, and his lingering spirit departed
from the world. No living man dared ever again to wield the either weapon after
the fulfillment of the oath, but the hafts of the Gwaedhel-spear were carried 
with reverence to the principals of Tirith Aear, and there surrendered to the
keeping of Ulmo's realm.
   During the time that the Gwaedhel-sword was in the possession af the princes
of Mornan, its power over the Dead was drawn upon many times. When folk of the
Black Vale were troubled by Oathbreakers (living or dead), the prince could be
entreated to intervene; and by brandishing the blade with words of command, he
held the power to evict the Cursed People (or their ghostly shades) from a 
given locale. Such banishments often involved lengthy negotiations with the 
Oathbreakers, whose terror was unable to daunt the bearer of the 
Gwaedhel-sword.
