Infidels are lead by Nochipa, a priestess of Alhpum, who is a 
minor god, whose sphere is flight (he is usually represented 
as a dove).

Nochipa is a very charismatic woman who lead a group of people 
in an unsanctioned, unorthodox rite of worship of Alphum. The 
results of the ceremony were quite spectacular, and Nochipa 
began attracting more people to her. But Nochipa turned away 
all races but human, and refused to allow clerics to see or 
participate in the rite.

In the beginning, this created only mild consternation amongst 
the clerics of Alphum. As Nochipa's following grew, however, it 
became alarm, which soon spread to other clerics. Eventually the 
Inquisitors were called, and Nochipa went into hiding.

Those of Nochipa's followers who did not flee with her were 
rounded up and questioned. From them, enough was learned that 
Nochipa and all who followed her were named as heretics and given 
a period of time to turn themselves in. When they did not, the 
Hegemon declared them infidel.

No one is certain what Nochipa's motives are, or why she accepts 
only humans into her following. 

=====
How this involves the Catacombs:

What if Nochipa has a secret agenda (unknown) and she enlisted 
Cahor's (Goddess of Deception) aid in deceiving her followers. 
Nochipa somehow pisses Cahor off, and now she has her minion,
Mixcotoc, stationed outside the gates, requiring Nochipa's head
of anyone living who wishes to enter.

Nochipa lives down beneath the Bazaar, in a hideout with several
of her followers. Some of her followers left spouses and children
behind when they fled. 

What if the player talks to the infidels, finds one who is look-
ing for information in his/her spouse. The player gets the spouse 
name, and goes looking at the tribunal. If they ask one of the 
inquisitors the right name, the player gets this speel about that 
one dying during interrogation. (Note: we can use NAME_TO_RANDOM
to make it so that only certain infidel npcs will respond to 
certain players based upon their names -- this makes it so that
the infidel Rifkin with the spouse Jerri may be assigned to me,
but you would get Egregus and his wife Poodle, thus making it
impossible for you to 'cheat' using my previous experiences on the 
quest).

...so, the player, armed with this info, goes back to the infidel
hideout, and tells the npc about his/her spouse. The npc then 
moans to the player about how he needs to get into the catacombs, 
but that the living can't get there, and even if they could, the
gatekeeper won't let them pass. This is a hint to the player to
figure out how to get onto the dead isle (ride in a coffin) and,
once there, to look up the gatekeeper (who tells the player about 
Nochipa's head, maybe gives the player something, like a cameo of
Nochipa, ie, she looks like this). 

So, player goes back to infidel and tells him that they need
Nochipa's head (give the cameo?), and the infidel does a lot of 
breast-beating...maybe even sends the player away so he can think. 
Infidel tells player that Nochipa will be difficult to kill, so 
they need all the help they can get. Committed to one betrayal, the 
infidel tells you to bring him to Jadestone as proof that you have
found the infidel hideout, and then she follows the player and the
infidel to the hideout, where they kill Nochipa. Nochipa's head is
cut off (we'll make it an autoloading object, so that the player
doesn't necessarily have to do all this in one login, or worse yet,
repeat it all), and the player has completed Part One of the 
quest, killing two birds with one stone (helping Jadestone get rid
of the infidels -- possible quest exp reward, and getting the head). 
*clap*clap*

Next part: player, with Nochipa's head in one hand and the infidel 
in tow, goes thru the hassle of getting to the gatekeeper, and gives 
over the head. Here we get a bit set and an exp reward. From here,
a few things can happen. Perhaps the infidel runs off into the cata-
combs and is never seen again. Perhaps the player helps the infidel
find the spouse (difficult to do if it will take more than one login
for the quest, as player would have to repeat all this in order to 
get the infidel to follow him). Perhaps this simply opens a door into
a new place with its own quest, like the mystery of the Seer and the
Amanuensis.

Either way, the build-up events certainly tie several elements in the
bazaar up into a neat package.










