Message: 26
From   : Brujah
Subject: Ithilien Entrance Task
To     : Elessar, Guincho, Jaypeg, Puzit, Ratrat, Tyler, Marisol, Prokop and
         Macleod
CC     : Brujah
Date   : Sep  9 1996

Hail and greetings...
  After several days of constant work and feedback from my officers, we have agreed on a new Ithilien entrance tasking system.  I also believe that for it to be finalized, I would like it reviewed by the council as well and put to a vote so that it will become standardized til another council decides to remove it.  The following is the details of the new system, and I will be putting it to vote once I return to my council chambers.
Thank you for your time...

Brujah
-Iron Hand of Ithilien-

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

Ithilien Entrance Task:

-To Begin-  
  The Ithilien entrance task is broken into four separate parts.  The first
being the standardized Ithilien task coded by Elessar.  The next three parts
are given by the Sergeant, Lieutenant, and Captain.  The first of the last
three parts is given by the Sergeant, and deals in the scholarly pursuits of
all rangers.  The second of the last three parts is given by the Lieutenant,
and deals with the Warrior role we each must play in defending our homeland.
The last of the last three parts is given by the Captain, dealing in the
arts of espionage and our tactful vigilence for knowledge.
  Before anyone may begin the tasks above, they must have reached the level
of Vigilant pupil, and completed training in all skills avaiable to a pupil.
They must have word of Gondor and the word from their sponsor that they are
ready to set forth and join a company.  The sponsor will need to mail the
officers of the company of all completed and rewarded tasks assigned to
the pupil to rectify repeated tasks in entrance.
  Upon such time, the pupil will need to contact the Ithilien council of
their intention to join the company and the first task will be assigned them.

-First task-
  The first task of entrance is an old task that needs to be not only used
but given a more related reason to Ithilien.  The statue which stands on
the crossroad of Morannon and Harad, is a symbol of what the peaceful past
of Ithilien once was decorated with.  It is a symbol reminding us of what
will come to be once more.  A pupil must understand this, and by replacing
the defaced head with the real stone head of the figure, should come to
understand the relevance of it all.  They will need to explain by a small
report why they did so and what is the reason that it was needed to be done.

-Second task (Sergeant)-
  The second task of entrance is detailed by the Scholarly pursuits the
rangers take upon themselves.  We are not barbarians, we live for the
knowledge of the past, present, and future.  This area is under the command
of the Sergeant of Ithilien.  Upon completion of the first task, the pupil
will address the Sergeant for a task that will be accomadating for the
stature of the person but still be challenging.

-Third task (Lieutenant)-
  The third ranger task of entrance is detailed by the Warrior defence of
Ithilien and the war we wage upon the Dark one.  We fight to save our land,
our lives, and our honour.  This area of command is dictated by the
Lieutenant of Ithilien.  Upon completion of the second task, the pupil must
address the Lieutenant for a task that will challenge the ideals of valor,
leadership, honour, and tactics with which we must use to defeat the evil
that surrounds us.

-Fourth task (Captain)-
  The fourth ranger task of entrance is detailed by the Stealthy way of
intrigue and espionage that is prevalent in the outside world.  There is
more to reading books, and fighting evil, there is the every faint secrets
that are hidden within the fabric of space.  What we believe, and we know,
become the beginnings to understanding everything we must find out.  The
straight and narrow path isnt always the easiest one.  This area of command
is under the lead of the Captain of Ithilien.  Upon completion of the third
task, the pupil will find the Captain of Ithilien and will be issued a
challenge that will define the ideas of espionage and the way of stealth.

-In Ending-
  The pupil will only recieve one task at a time.  They must complete each
task and be rewarded, before they can even start on the next event.  Upon
complete of all 4 parts, a letter will be sent to Gondor, the sponsor, and
the pupil of the tasks and the overall accomplishment.  A ceremony will be
performed on a date set by the sponsor, pupil and a respective Ithilien
officer.

Macleod, Sergeant
Tyler, Lieutenant
Brujah, Captain
-Iron Hand of Ithilien-

