Message: 29
From   : Jaypeg
Subject: Proposal for RON company entrance quest
Date   : Nov 13 1996

Proposal for RON company entrance quest

Concept:
The qeust is basically a spying mission, using the history of
Arnor to solve a problem.  I'd like the quest to be available
from Halbarad, Master Ranger of the North, who stands in our
entrance hall, preaching warnings and guidance to all who 
will listen.

Storyline:
Lately there have been numerous reports of strange-looking
southerners lurking around Bree, and the officers of the 
Grey Company are concernted by building rumours of the darkness
spreading from the far southeast.  Also they have been pulling
their hair out with the latest incursions of orcs
above Greenfields, and increased sightings of trolls
in Hollin.

Therefore the investigation of this latest possible threat
falls to you, the pupil.  Successful completion of this mission
would prove your worth to the officers of the North, most
likely assuring your place in the coveted and secretive
Grey Company.

Halbarad has told you that its likely that such suspicious
characters can be found lurking in the shadows at the
Prancing Pony, the famous bastion of hospitality owned
by Barliman Butterbur, and the centrepoint of gossip
more than any other place in the North.  Slipping out of
Fornost as the sun rises, you break into your lengthening
strides down the Greenway, pacing yourself so that you'll
reach Bree in the shadows of twilight as the sun
dissapears in the west...

Quest:
The quest is to find the Pranceing Pony, a simple task,
as any ranger should know this place.  But then the Pupil
must find his/her way into a secret room, or perhaps
just a cupboard or something, and wait for nightfall.
Late in the night, before the hour of midnight two men
will appear in the room next to or where the pupil
hides.  If the pupil fails a hidden check, or is not
hidden, the southerners notice the pupil and leave
speaking in angry hushed tones.  If the pupil
successfully hides from the strangers, the strangers
will exchange a dialog that will give the pupil an
important clue, as month perhaps.  This month can then
be used to solve some secret shared with the 
conspiritors.  I see this as a similar problem to
solve as the barrow wight quest in the Barrow Downs.
There should be a book written in and available in
the RON library to allow the pupil the resources 
necessary to solve the puzzle.  Finally the pupil
may report back to Halbarad, and at his prompt,
answer the puzzle.  The pupil gets only three tries
at giving answers to Halbarad.  Once a pupil has
given the correct answer to Halbarad I was hoping
that it would be possible for an automatic mailing
to be sent to the officers of the North, stating
that the pupil has successfully completed the
mission.

Problems:
For a start this requires a small amount of coding,
and because RON is a Gondor guild in the Shire
domain, some cross-domain cooperation.  It requires
some code in Halbarad, a book to be written in RON,
and an extra room or hiding hole to be coded into
or around the Prancing Pony.  No NPC's are necessary
simply have the pupil hiding uder the floor or in
a cupboard etc with his/her ear up against a knothole
so that they might overhear the "conversation".
sppledge anew
Also there is the problem of the quest being done
prematurely.  For this there may have to be some
flag or file, where the Captain of the RON may,
when the pupil is ready for his/her final task,
give "permission" for Halbarad to supply the pupil
with the information to start this mission.
Hopefully a little randomness will prevent too
much leaking of the details of this quest
to the pupils that follow.

Written by Jaypeg Brandybuck
15th Captain of the Rangers of the North


Please review and send your comments
JB

