T> My comments are prefaced like this (Teth).
T> A few impressions I get from reading it over is that it is definitely
   an excellent start and it certainly turns the notion of evil, smelly
   goblin on its head. I hope that this is not too "big" of a project,
   but that will be more a matter of implementation rather than design.

Kalerus. Originally a natural cavern, the city was carved meticulously from
the surrounding rock by early goblin settlers. An enormous waterfall enters the
cavern near the top of the north wall. The falls create a powerful river which
has been diverted through a labyrinth of channels running throughout the city.
A tribute to goblin ingenuity, the intricate channel system supplies the city
with electrical power as well as a continual source of fresh water for drinking
and washing. The sound of the falls creates an ever present roar which visitors
often find difficult to adjust to. Most Kalerian natives, however, find it
difficult to sleep when traveling outside the city where they feel that
"something is missing."
 
T> Good detail so far, and a very imaginative setting. Goblins as engineers
   of something intricate. I like the difficult to sleep away from the city
   part. Perhaps that can be displayed in npc chats ("While I was travelling,
   I found it so hard to sleep!")?
 At the south end of the cavern, all of the channeled water streams are
conscientiously rejoined into a single powerful river which exits the cavern
via a long, winding tunnel in the cavern's south wall. Some distance from the
city, the tunnel terminates as the river plunges over a cliff in a second
waterfall which disappears into a seemingly bottomless ravine. Here the tunnel
is intersected by the shaft of an abandoned well. This is where the original
settlers of the city drew water while they were living on the surface.
Kalerians access the rest of the world of Genesis via the water harvesting
system which was originally built to carry water from the river up the shaft to
the surface.

 Visitors to Kalerus must discover the well in the middle of a harsh desert.
This is where the original settlers of Kalerus were sent after being banished
by the wizards of Genesis. For their arrogant misuse of certain powerful magic,
the entire goblin tribe of Xi' Pa was destroyed with the exception of the six
members of its leadership council, including Xi' Pa himself. No water was to be
found in the endless desert and, when death was upon them, Xi' Voch, the
reigning goblin wizard took pity on The Six and guided them to an underground
source of water deep in the desert. Without their magic, they were forced to
use only their simple tools and ingenuity to construct a well and harvest the
water.

T> I wonder how this will be set up in terms of how the area is connected to
   the tower island and how other domains will connect to this area with
   boats? I don't like the wizards of Genesis as a physical entity banishing
   a certain race away. The "wizards of Genesis" is too otherworldly to be
   a part of an area history. It'd be like a character in a movie suddenly
   talking to the director and having that in the movie. It's an interruption.
   Also, in terms of names, it might be best to avoid names which mortals
   cannot emulate, such as those with a ' in them.

Eventually, The Six took refuge from the merciless sun in the depths of the
well and followed the river through the cramped tunnel to the cavern. Their
shame was ultimately turned to victory when they completed their worship temple
and dedicated it to their savior, Xi' Voch. To this day, the use of magic by
goblins is very closely policed by the goblins themselves as their people know
all too well the anger of the wizards. 

T> Again, the wizards group will have to be changed. 

Temple of Xi' Voch - The centerpiece of Kalerus is the Temple of Xi' Voch.
Aside from being the architectural crown jewel of the goblin city, The Temple
serves several other functions. As the social hub of Kalerus, the ornate Temple
provides natives as well as visitors with a place to worship and to learn. The
Temple's main room is a shrine to the ancient goblin wizard, Xi' Voch. Here, a
towering statue of Xi' Voch gestures symbolically down to a small portion of
the river which has been routed through the Temple. It runs into the chamber
and travels down a decorative, ceremonial channel running through the center of
the room. This water is considered sacred as it is physically the first water
to reach the city from the falls and, here in the shrine, is offered back to
Xi' Voch as a continuous sacrifice of gratitude.

T> Again, good detail. I'm starting to have concerns about how large this area
   will be, though. But, we'll see how it turns out.

 In a smaller chamber, a shrine has been erected to honor The Six, the founders
of the goblin city. The Eyes of The Six are stored here and have been safely
protected for nearly a thousand generations. Preserving a strong, magical link
to the past, these relics have been known to call forth the visages of The Six
when prayed to by a faithful heart. Occasionally, one of The Six may even
charge such a visitor with a quest which may involve learning more about
Kalerian history and culture or even performing heroic deeds to preserve that
culture.

T> This works for me as a setup for a quest-giver, although I wonder if 
   having an image of the six giving out a quest makes the appearance of
   a legendary figure too common and ordinary. Perhaps I am overly much a
   realist.

 An adjoining library contains extensive information about the tribe of Xi' Pa,
The Six, the establishment and development of Kalerus, and the struggles of the
goblin people living there over the years.

T> This could be interesting, I'd like to see on what you plan on housing
   within it. I don't think it should be a library open to mortal additions
   to the texts within.

 The Temple is entered from the south near the Bathing Pool via a small
antechamber which houses the goblin board and a Common Board.

Bathing Pool - As much a spiritual place as it is a functional one, the goblin
bathing pool is located in the courtyard just south of the Temple. It is fed by
water from the waterfall which is channeled around the Temple and into the
pool. Those who visit Kalerus with preconceptions of goblins as dirty, stupid
creatures may be surprised to discover that physical purification as well as
spiritual rejuvenation are so central to the goblin belief system that they
figure prominently into the architecture of the city.

T> Very interesting and compelling.

Training Hall & Combat Arena - Located southwest of the Temple, the training
hall offers Kalerian natives as well as city visitors a place to learn and
refine skills that are crucial to survival and success in the world of Genesis.

T> Ok. We're going to try nudge people into having npcs do the training,
   but certainly an npc working is okay.

 The combat arena offers a public place for the settlement of personal and
political disputes. A special water channel serves as a moat around the combat
arena and contains thousands of deadly chutuk, small, six-legged, amphibious
carnivores which can devour even a champion in a matter of moments. The moat
discourages combatants from having second thoughts once they commit to a
battle, and also prevents interference from excited onlookers. It is accepted
in Kalerus that if you are not prepared to die, you do not enter the arena.

T> I hope this is detail. ;-) Although I suppose it is workable, some 
   warning needs to be given prior to entering the moat.

Shop - The shop offers a variety of wares for reasonable prices. The management
naturally caters to goblins.  : - )

Post Office - This is a standard post office.

Sleeping Cells - Hundreds of sleeping cells have been dug into the west, south,
and east walls of the cavern. The cells vary in size and typically have room
for one to four goblins. All cells look out over the city with those near the
top of the cavern walls providing the most breathtaking views of the scenery
below.

T> You've managed to create a very vivid picture of the area in my mind,
   that's for certain. In general, I really like the idea. I think there are
   still a few things to consider, though. Will there be a killing area?
   What will be the connections to other lands? I'm also of the opinion that
   we need to be cautious of the scope of the area. But otherwise, I think
   you have a winning idea here.


