Some ideas:

	One needs to create these three major cities in 
underdark and the connections between them. Between the 
drow and dwarven&gnomish areas there goes some major 
cave-roads that is littered with defensive systems 
made by the gnomes and the dwarves. The drow see 
themselves fairly superior to the rest and are the 
most agressive part, so they tend to use men and 
magic in their defence (or rather attacks).
The dwarves use their skills in forming the rock, 
therebye creating hidden exits, avalanches, concealed 
pits etch. and axes for their fighters. They also 
utilizes some magic, but mosly magic that counters 
the drows frightening wizards and for concealment. 
The gnomes aren’t that good with shaping rock or to 
fight, so they try to use diplomacy and their weird 
inventions to defend themselves. Usually such 
inventions of war end up killing their makers as 
well as their enemies, but during time they have 
managed to create a lethal system of war-machines 
that usually works.

The dwarven underhome.

To get to this place one can go through the hallways 
of rock that is between Undraeth and Underhome. This 
hallway passes through one minor city that now more 
resembles a battlefield rather than the tradepost it 
used to be. If a player tries to walk this road, they 
will be met with several traps they must avoid. If 
they manage to avoid them, and are not a dwarf, they 
will be attacked as the stranger carrying danger and 
magic they are (in the minds of  the dwarves). But if 
they are a dwaf, they must answer a question that only 
a dwarf knows. (in case the stranger is a drow-wizard 
in a dwarven-hem) "Foul enemy of  our kin! Prove your 
family and heritage or be slain. What is the name of 
our ancestor that lies burried beneath the master-work 
of his own hands. Tell us this or 
we will crush you beneath your own foolishness." 
The answer is the name of the climber-dwarf that once 
made a monument to the deep-dwarfish God Rahxvan. While 
finishing the work, the climber dwarf did a small mistake. 
He was working on the eye while his tools slipped and 
made a small scar on the smooth surface. The God, angered 
by this apprentice workmansship made the monument crumble 
and punished the dwarf with everlife and a view of the 
sky for the rest of his time, to never to return to his 
home, Underhome.
	The other way down is through the same dwarf. 
He knows how to get back, but is doomed never to walk 
the path. In the chasm (west of him) there is a hidden 
path to a small crack in the rock-wall. This crack hides 
an magic entrance that can be revealed and opened if 
the player has a special axe of power. This axe can 
be found if the players dig in an old grave placed 
where the last battle took place.
A lot of hints will be given out by the dwarf. 1000xp
With this axe any player will be accepted if he returns 
it to the dwarven king. And the crack will open by touch 
only, later. 

The Kings Lost Axe of Power.

The axe has no other abilities alone, except if they hand 
it over to the king. In his hand (the rightful owner of it) 
it gets 46/54. As a normal axe its 34/37 (two-handed). The 
players can use it if they also wears the kings gold-necklace 
of majestisy. Though if the dwarves see anyone wearing it 
they will autoattack and get increased stats since they are 
berserked in the need to get the necklace back.

	The Necklace of Majestisy

This will "power" the axe of Power. It also gives the wearer 
a golden glow of majesticy when worn: 1 light pluss some emotes. 
No hints on the combination except if someone gives the king the 
axe and sees him figth pretty well with it. The King will be 
hard to kill.

	The ruins.

One of the ruins are left alone by all dwarves. It is enchanted 
or else it would also have been looted through the centuries. 
Five rooms to it, demanding higher  and higher dis to walk onwards. 
One room none can go into unless they get some items that cancels 
the spell. (not decided what items…) This ruin is an old temple 
to the now forgotten dwarven God that the dwarves felt had left 
them when they were slayed by  drow-elves and humans.
In  another place one will meet an old priest that tells the 
tale of the old days and of the solution to the new days of drow-attacks..

Talks only to good-aligned people. In case of evil-aligned players:

The dwarf stares deeply into your eyes.
"Leave me be you foul being! Go and mine for coal or something,"
The dwarf spits on the floor in disgust.

Different keywords for asking him:

Story: tale history

"This region ..."
The dwarf points around.

"... of the underdark, known as Underhome is one of the last refuges 
for us the ancient deep dwarves."

The dwarf sighs.
"Long ago, when humans were a rare sight in Kalad, my skillfull 
people flourished. Our mighty citadels and expansive underground 
cities were true technological marvels!"

The dwarf smiles proudly.

"Yes, even by today's standards our work in that time was of excellensy."

The dwarf suddenly gets a troubled look as he thinks back in time.

"Yet the great and terrible war between the dwarves and the drow took 
a terrible toll on us dwarves that are blessed with a long life. Although 
we managed to defeat the drow, forcing them away from Underhome, we lost 
over three-fourths of  our forces. Friends and family."

The dwarf sighs deeply.

"... a loss we never really recovered from. And so our surface citadels fell 
into ruin, a skeletal reminder of the glory days when everyone marvelled at 
our work. Even Underhome, one of, if not the most magnificent of our cities, 
is but a poor shadow of itself now."

The dwarf touches the walls of his cave.

"And now ... they are back! They have taken one of our old cities and called 
it Undraeth, just a few leagues from Underhome, and has already begun to send 
scouts to probe our defences!"

The dwarf grumbles.

"If I only could get back to my temple."

The dwarf seems to fade away into his own thoughts.

--------------------

Temple: temple ruin:

The dwarf peers at you.

"Yes? Ohh you don’t know about the curse ... none can get into it now 
that my friends down here has turned their back to our Father. But 
salvation lies within it! But do you think they listen to me? Ohno, I  
am just an old grumpy dwarf that rambles about long forgotten Gods. 
They believe in steel and rock! Not words and magic."

The dwarf grumbles.

-------------------
Salvation:

Hmm

"Well, if you want to listen to me ... inside it there is a shrine 
that contains the scrolls of wisdom. With them I will be able to 
turn the heads back to the right vein in their stubborn way of  
digging through this problem we are facing. Get it to me and we 
can save my people!."

Hmm 

"And maybe Rahxvan will reward you too? He used to be nice 
to brave men. And cruel to stupid fools ... so be warned. You 
may have to face the wrath of my God!"

The dwarf ponders on something.

"Ohh, almost forgot: Nobody dares to enter the ruins of 
my old temple or did I say that to you?"

The dwarf tugs his long gray beard.

"And I don’t know how to get in."

The dwarf seems to fade away in thoughts.

-----------------------
Rahxvan: god deity him

"That is my God of worship. He is a hard deity that demands 
much from his followers. Once a Master-mason made a monument 
for Him, but managed to chip off a small piece of the smooth 
surface of the monuments eye. Rahxvan was angry, very angry, 
and cast him out of Underhome for ever. He was doomed to
 watch the great sky for ever in prayers and solitude. None 
has heard of him since. The funny part is that this dwarf 
is now a hero here among my brothers."

The dwarf chuckles.

"It shows the stupidity they have fallen into. Mining 
for coal they are!"

The dwarf spits on the floor to emphasize the insult.

--------------------------

Shrine: scrolls of wisdom

The dwarf nods solemnly.

"That is what I need. The scrolls. Get them for me, will you?"


-------------------
Thats the basics for the main quest right now. If  
someone attacks this dwarven priest he will call to 
his God for help. "Rahxvan! Save me now or the last 
vein of faith to you will vanish!"

Then a major hammer will strike down from the sky etch. 
and the priest will get super stats. All in all, no go 
for the players here. With this setup, the evil quest 
can be to get the players to kill this dwarf with the 
help of drow magic to counter the dwarven Gods anger.  

Comments? 
Korat.
