This document will explain how a member of the Elemental Clerics (EC)
guild advances in the guild.

When a player joins the EC, the hold the guild rank of Child.
As a Child, the player has a limited number of spells and has
not chosen a branch (Diety) to specialize in. 

There are two things that impact an EC's title; guildstat and
practice level. Guildstat is gained by the normal way everyone
else gains it, gaining experience and a portion goes towards
the guildstat. Practice level is gained by actually successfully
casting spells and that value is stored in the player's guild
player file (/d/Calia/guilds/elementalists/data/<playername.o>).

When a Child gains a certain amount of practice level, the
adjective in their title will change (currently Child adjectives
are Unproven, Fledgling, Promising, Gifted, Accomplished, 
Learned).

When a Child gains a certain amount of OCC guildstat, the rest
of their title will change (currently Child titles are 
Novitiate of the Elementals, Student of Vision, Neophyte of 
Insight, Aspirant of Enlightenment, Eidolon of Transcendence).

Once a Child has reached the top Child adjective and top Child 
title (currently Learned Eisolon of Transcendence), they are
eligible for their Mentor to put them forth for promotion
into the Master Cleric rank. This isn't an automatic promotion
however unless there are major reasons why they should not be
promoted, everyone who reaches this title should be promoted
to Master rank.

There is a ceremony that is held in the private chapel in the 
Elemental Temple at which time the Child is promoted to the
rank of Master.

At this point, the Master Cleric will be instructed to head
to the Conduit Chamber and <divine>. They will go through
five different visions and witness not only critical events
that have taken place in the past and near future, but they
will also show them the type of playstyle and spells they
will receive under each Diety. Once they have divined all of
the visions, they will select a Diety to serve by worshipping
them at their appropriate statue in the Elemental Temple.

Now the player will have the spells from that branch and will
continue to grow by gaining experience and casting spells in
order to progress their adjectives and title. Once they reach
140 in their occ guildstat, they will be prompted with another
vision when they enter the realms. This vision will guide 
them to start/complete their Guru quest. Completing this 
quest will grant them the ability to train higher skills and
unlock more power (higher CAID) in some of their spells.

Once a Master has reached the top Master adjective and top
Master title for their branch (as an example, Fire branch
maxxed Master title would be Glorious Master/Mistress of 
Fire) AND they have completed their Guru quest, they are
eligible to be promoted to the rank of Full Master. Again
this isn't an automatic promotion however unless there are
major reasons why they should not be promoted, everyone who
attains this title should be promoted to Full Master rank.

There is a ceremony that is held in the private chapel in the
Elemental Temple at which time the Master is promoted to the
rank of Full Master.

At this point, the Full Master Cleric will gain their 
Syndyasmos spells (combination spells) and this is where
most players in the guild will stop advancing in rank.
They also gain the ability to choose a custom title in the
guild out of a selection of adjectives and titles that will
vary depending on which branch they are in.

There is one higher rank in the guild, Elder. Elder Clerics
are chosen by the guild council and other Elder Clerics
and have one extra responsibility within the guild; being
a mentor to Child clerics. If a player has shown they are
responsible (in keeping guild secrets, following guild
rules, being a helpful player to others), they can be 
asked by other Elders or Council members if they wish to
become an Elder. If they decide they want to be promoted,
there is a ceremony that is held in the private chapel in 
the Elemental Temple at which time the Full Master is 
promoted to the rank of Elder. Elders only have one ability
that Full Master rank clerics and below don't have; they
can allow (with Council permission) a player to join the 
guild.

The Council will consist of one member from each branch
(if available) and should be no more than five members.
Council members have the ability to allow players to join
the guild, can hand out punishments to the members, can
expel members, and decide who will be Elder ranked Clerics.
They also decide when the ceremonies take place to promote
players up ranks.
