The Elemental Clerics of Calia guild wizard introduction.

The Elemental Clerics of Calia will be a good aligned 
occupational clerical guild that will also take the players
layman slot (making them layman clerics as well). It also has
an option for players to join a racial section of the guild as
well, binding their spirit with an Ancient Kyrullian spirit that
was once an Elemental Cleric long ago (before the Dim Tim in the
Calian Chronicals). The main focus of the guild is to stop the 
"Soulless" (undead) from taking over the Realms. In Ancient Times
(according to the Calian Chronicals) they were also around to help
defeat the barbarians, helped Caliana defeat the krougs (including
Kroug himself and his highest general Steerax) as well as helping
defeat Dephonia so they carry on a mission of trying to rid Calia
of great evil uprisings and threats. 

The Elemental Clerics are a replacement for the Spirit Circle of 
Psuchae guild (already open to mortals - information about that
can be found in /d/Calia/guilds/scop) and will encompass the
original vision which was to have an occupational guild that the
players could worship any of the Elementals they wanted to (instead
of just Psuchae (Spirit) which SCoP has).

The information below is also written into books that can be found
in the library of the Elemental Temple for mortals. Of course they 
don't have all of the information, just the parts that mortals are 
allowed to see and know. 

Here is a brief description of the Five elementals that "power" the
Elemental guilds (Elemental Seekers/Elemental Worshippers/Elemental 
Clerics).

Lord Pyros - the Elemental of Fire. Lord Pyros is a muscular 
warrior-prince with eyes like flames and flowing red locks of 
hair and beard. He wields a great flaming sword and bellows 
with a voice like a roaring furnace.Unforgiving and unswayable,
showing disrespect to him invites immediate immolation. He is 
the most intense and dangerous of the Elementals.

Lady Aeria - the Elemental of Air. Lady Aeria is lovely beyond 
words, with long flowing golden hair sparkling sky-blue eyes, 
and her comeliness is matched by a sweet disposition. Light-hearted 
and merry in character, free in laughter, she speaks like a whisper 
of the wind with breath as sweet as Spring, but she can blow a sudden 
and powerful gust when she feels the need. She wears a crown of clouds 
and is often sighted with translucent butterfly-like wings. While the 
most agreeable and beautiful of the Elementals, she can be flighty, 
unpredictable, and a danger if perturbed.  

Lord Diabrecho - the Elemental of Water. Lord Diabrecho is distinguished 
by unfathomably deep and knowing eyes, hair rich and flowing like the sea,
and a body that is both muscular and sleek. He is the sage and wise 
philosopher who speaks in a rich, deep voice like the rolling of the ocean
waves. Although he wields a great blue-green trident, he is not particularily 
warlike. He is the most intelligent and laconic of the Elementals, and most 
likely the least threatening. 

Lady Gu - the Elemental of Earth. Lady Gu is a lady of nature, with vivid 
green eyes and rich, wavy brown hair, often wearing a long gown of flowers.
She is a tranquil spirit, generally at peace with all Creation, but beneath
the serenity lurks a dark, dour side to her, ruthless and hard when the need
arises. She speaks like the sound of stones running down a mountainside and
wears a crown of stone roses. Most compassionate and understanding of the 
Elementals, she can be severe in her revenge if sufficiently provoked.

Psuchae - the Elemental of Spirit. Psuchae is a shadowy presence with 
intensely bright and piercing eyes. It is the ruler of the spirit and 
shadows. Psuchae is the quietest amoung the Five in voice, unless you 
are one of the Soulless. 

  "Psuchae is all that that surrounds us, and all that lies in the
  great in-between. What is Shadow but that which stands between
  light and void, a twilight that defines the the edges of those
  things that have no edge?

  Psuchae is neither male nor female, yet at the same time both,
  for as shadow lies between light and darkness, absence and
  existance, so it is that Psuchae is neither Lord nor Lady,
  maintaining the balance of the other Four.

  It is Psuchae that links the Elements together, binding them as
  the para-elements and the quasi-elements. Should the fog and mist
  be the domain of Aeria or Diabrecho? Should lava be reigned by
  Pyros or Gu? Through the mysteries of Psuchae, the definitiveness
  of separate elements can be blended together in an exquisite dance.

  And when we, as spirits, enter and leave the mortal realm, it is
  Psuchae that can acts as our beacon and escort. Diabrecho, Gu,
  Aeria, and Pyros, rule supremely over the elements of the physical
  world as wel know it, but beyond lies the celestial reaches and
  the spiritual realms. These places cannot be reached by fire or
  sea or sky or land, and thus it is Psuchae's domain we must
  enter."

The members will divine powers from their chosen elemental in order 
to pass on their teachings upon the world. They will be housed in the
Elemental Temple in Calia. They shall be clerics in the AD&D style of
clerics which is to say they shall have to pray for their gifts, not
cast them like magical guilds. They will be restricted to the number 
of prayers they have depending on their ranking within the guild and
the branch (or elemental) they have chosen.

They will have several skills to learn (spell forms and elements) 
and spellcraft (because we don't really have a prayercraft skill)
along with some other miscellaneous skills (herbalism, awareness,
location sense). They will be allowed to wear any armour, but only
wield weapons that are of the bludgeoning type. For this reason, I
have chosen their weapon skill to be club. They will also train in 
defence and parry as well. 

Each branch has a specific 'function' in terms of the prayers they
have. Each branch will have a couple of offensive prayers, a healing
prayer and some various miscellaneous prayers however they will not
all be the same power. Examples of their miscellaneous prayers are 
a tell line, some defensive shield prayers and detect magic. The main
'function' of each branch is as follows:

Fire   - damage dealing; their damage prayers hit the hardest in the
         guild but their heal prayer is the weakest of the guild.

Air    - support; their damage and healing prayers are average strength
         for the guild but they have other support prayers such as 
         disarm and summon food/water.

Water  - healing; their healing prayer is the most powerful in the
         guild but their damage prayers are the weakest of the guild.

Earth  - protection; their damage and healing prayers are average
         strength for the guild but they have defensive prayers such
         as health regeneration and rescue player.

Spirit - undead; their damage and healing prayers are average strength
         for the guild but they have offensive and defensive prayers
         that are specifically tailored for dealing with undeads (or
         Soulless as they refer to them as) such as turn undead.

There are four ranks in the guild; Child, Master, Full Master and Elder:
 
Children study under a mentor who must be at least Elder level. In order
to become a Child, they must be chosen by a current Elder (who will 
mentor them). Children only get access to the first few prayers 
(the same spells that the Elemental Worshippers get). After learning 
enough about the guild and gaining enough guildstat as well as 
practicing (casting) their prayers, they can be promoted (via an 
Elder officiated ceremony) to Master Cleric.

Master Clerics will get access to the all Child level prayers (minus
one offensive prayer that gets replaced with a branch specific version
of it) and their branch specific prayers. Upon becoming a Master Cleric,
the player will have to choose an Elemental to worship. If they decide
they don't like that Elemental, they can change ONCE freely. If they wish
to change again, they require Council authorization (and a pretty good
reason I imagine). They don't get all of their prayers at once, they 
must both gain guildstat and practice their prayers and they shall 
receive them at specific intervals. At about halfway between the 
requirements for Master and the requirements for Full Master, they 
will be able to complete their Guru quest. Once completed, some of
their prayers will gain in power and they will aquire new ones as they
grow (both guildstat and practicing prayers). After progressing high
enough, completing their Guru quest and learning more about the guild,
they can be promoted (via an Elder officiated ceremony) to Full Master
Cleric.

Full Master Clerics gain access to one more ability - Syndyasmos. It is
a team combination ability that will determine the branch of each 'partner'
used in the ability and from that it will determine which of the twenty-five
prayers that will actually be used. In order to use Syndyasmos, the player
will have to pre-approve a person to be their partner (another command that
they can add people to their list of approved people), both 'partners' must
be Full Master Clerics (or above), they must have selected each other as 
current 'partners', they must be teamed together and they must be present
in the same room as each other. Full Master Clerics also have the option
of joining the racial section of the guild (hence devoting their entire
life efforts to the Elementals). After progressing high enough and knowing
all there is to know about the guild as well as showing the qualities of
leadership and mentoring, they can be promoted (via an Elder officiated
ceremony) to Elder Cleric. 

Elder Clerics gain no extra prayers or abilities except two; they can 
allow someone to join the guild and they can officiate ceremonies for
others in the guild (to do promotions). Elder members will also be where
the guild council will be chosen from.

The guild will have a council consisting of at least one member. The 
actual number of council will be determined by the mortals in the guild.
This council will have the ability to ban members from training, ban
them from using their prayers, or even expel them from the guild.
