
This document is meant for whomever is reviewing this guild in terms of 
balance. 

A few things to note about the guild.

1. This guild takes both their occupational and layman guild slots (and
   optionally their racial slot once they hit Full Master Cleric). For
   that reason, their defence and parry skills are high as they will 
   have no other way of defending themselves once they run out of mana.
   A Cleric with no mana is like a player in a combat guild with no
   kind of combat special - yes they'll have a weapon (they can only 
   wield clubs) but they have no type of combat special or anything and
   will have to wait until they gain mana back (which doesn't come 
   back in combat very quickly).
   
2. The members of the guild have three 'currencies' that determine 
   numerous things in the guild. "Mana" is of course their power source
   for all of their prayers (spells). "Chymos" (personal_conduit as it's
   known in the code) is used by Syndyasmos (combo spells). Chymos is
   gained by using prayers (casting spells) and doing chores around
   the Temple. Chymos is spent by using Syndyasmos or sacrificing it
   to the Temple Conduit (controls things like how much of a discount
   the Temple herb shop has for members, etc...). Lastly, there is 
   "practice level". This currency is used in determining the players
   title and rank. It is gained by using prayers (casting spells). It
   is a mechanism to help curb the 'I just joined a new guild so I'm 
   going to go kill myself so I can race up the titles/gain new spells
   quickly' issues that some people like to do. All of these currencies
   are stored in the player's player file (/d/Calia/guilds/elementalists/
   data/<playername>.o).

3. Speaking of data files, the guild control mechanism is in /d/Calia/
   guilds/elementalists/lib/guild_manager.c. It handles all of the player
   file data and guild data (ie. council members, etc...).
   
4. Most of the numbers for CAID came from reviewing other guilds that
   are currently open (such as Morgul Mages, Society of High Magic, 
   Priest of Takhesis, etc...). I have stayed under the limits that were
   allowable however I realize that some of these numbers will have to be
   adjusted (if necessary). During player-testing I have been watching the
   numbers and adjusting things so as not being underpowered or overpowered
   compared to other guilds. In the /d/Calia/guilds/elementalists/spells dir,
   you will see a file called <spellname>_damage for each spell that does
   direct damage to a target. Those files show the pen/damage and resist for
   each successful casting of the prayers.
   
5. I tried to stay thematic throughout the guild in terms of what powers
   players are granted as well as staying true to their branches 'duty' in
   the guild. The exception is that all branches do have at least two damage
   spells (a big bang and an at-will). This is done simply because without
   any way to do damage, the branch really wouldn't be playable without any
   other guild members or teammates around. I did however lower the damage
   of all branches compared to Fire (which is supposed to be the damage
   dealing branch).
   
6. I'm sure there are other questions that will come up. Please feel free
   to let me know any questions you have in terms of 'why the heck did you
   do that?' or 'why is this so high/low?'. I'll add them to this doc as
   you ask them (and I answer them) and then incorporate that into the 
   wizinfo document for anyone else looking at the guild at a later date.
   
7. Finally, thanks for taking the time to review the guild. It's been a
   long time in the making and I'm really excited to see it open. I know
   there will be things to adjust and I'm walking into this with as open
   a mind as I can. I'm sure we will have arguments over things but know
   that it's only because I'm passionate about the creation and it's 
   nothing personal.
   
Thanks!
Jaacar
