Proposed ransom quest involving the bandits:

An important elven noble has lost something of great value. The bandits
have managed to acquire it through larcenous means and have followed
up with a ransom note demanding that they negotiate a price for the 
return of the valuable. Unfortunately, the bandits, not necessarily being 
the best strategic planners failed to mention where or how they could be
contacted, nevermind how the ransom was to be paid.

The noble, not wishing for his vulnerable position to be disclosed, has
hired a private individual to deal with the matter. This individual, 
presumably found at an inn, or other establishment frequented by 
adventurers (I need to figure out specifically where), may contract a player
to locate and negotiate the details of the ransom with the bandits.

Locating and speaking with the bandits about the ransom (this will probably
involve getting a written agreement from the bandits which would be returned
to the private individual) will result in a fairly small reward.

However, enterprising players will not go after the bandits, but will go
after the ransomed individual. Unfortunately for the player, the ransomed
individual has not been taken to the bandits hideout but will be secreted
in one of three locations nearer or in Telberin. A hint as to those locations
can be found by visiting the bandits.

I propose that the quest should have three different ransomed items, from
three different nobles, who all use the same middle man to get the job
done. I also propose that there be three different locations the ransomed
things are being held - to make it a little trickier (and more realistic)
for those players who clue in that returning the ransomed item is a far
superior solution (xp-wise as well!) to the middle man's request.

Proposed ransom items: a marriage ring (already coded), a child (who,
for simplicities sake I will make young enough to be carried back to the
Inn) and ... presently Im inclined to go with a second child (one boy,
one girl).

Proposed hideouts for the ransomee: Warehouse along the docks, under an Inn,
and in deep woods not too far from shore-side Telberin. I think the
locations should be spread out, if possible, but all within the greater
Telberin area.





