The Circle
A story about the Worshippers of the ancient times.
Shesara
The Circle

'But what, I ask you again, young Soraan, makes you suggest that Lord Pyros
is evil in his ways?', I asked to the class, and especially to Soraan, who
had just made this rather bold statement to me through a lengthy tale of how
destructive fire could be.

Soraan answered: 'Fire is very hot and burn down houses and trees, mister
Hadelack. Beings that cause that kind of destruction seem very evil to me.'
'Ahh, I can agree that fire can burn, young Soraan; But doesn't the blowing
winds of Air, the surging waves of Water and the rolling rocks of Earth pose
the same very real danger to us all? Have we not heard about the winds of a
large storm tearing buildings apart, about the large waves hitting buildings
tens of meters inshore or about the shakings of the earth, making no man nor
building stand still?'

Young Soraan had to agree to that and suddenly got a disturbing look in his
eyes. He then asked: 'But, why follow the Divine Beings if they destroy and
kill?'

I chuckled a bit at this question from Soraan. I redirected the question
towards the entire class; 'Indeed so. Can anyone tell me why we put our
life into the hands of Beings who destroy and kill?'

One of the older girls, miss Tirana, at the back of the classroom raised her
hand and said: 'We believe in the Four Divine Beings because they created
the world and they created us.. ?'

I nodded thoughtfully at this and of course heard the uncertainty in her
voice having listened to the tale about destruction of the world from Soraan.
I then said: 'Yes, that is certainly one of the reasons we believe in the
Divine Elementals. Anyone else?'

Noone seemed to have anything further to add. I then continued: 'Fire can be
destructive as well as can any and all of the Four elements. But without
them we cannot live, nor would we even be here today if it wasn't for the
Four Divine Elementals. Let us turn the question around and ask this; What
good do the Four Elementals do us?'

Miss Tirana raised her hand and answered: 'Fire can heat us when we are cold.
Water can stop us from being thirsty if we drink it.'

The entire class seemed to agree with that. Another student added: 'And we
have to breathe the air or we will die.'

I nodded again at the class, then said: 'Indeed so. Without the Four
Elementals we cannot exist. They all provide us with the nourishment and
protection we need to live. Lord Diabrecho creates water for us to drink,
Lord Pyros creates the heat we need to stay warm, Lady Gu creates the earth
we use to grow our corn and Lady Aeria send us the breath of air we need to
breathe. But this sounds as if they are good to me. What about you, young
Soraan?'

Soraan thought about this and then admitted: 'Yes, mister Hadelack. But how
can they be both good and evil?'

I answered with a question: 'Oh, do you love your father and mother, young
Soraan?'. He confirmed this to the class. 'And do you also love them when
they punish you for doing bad things? Or do you think they are evil when
they make you go to bed early, or make you stay home instead of letting you
play with your best friends?'

I continued: 'The Four Divine Elementals both have the power to give and to
take away. We may not always understand why, but we must always have faith
that They do it because They know it is needed. When we have faith in Them;
when we love our neighbours as well as all others we meet; when we do our
daily duties as best we can and always help those in need, then They will
reward us with bread, meat, water and all that we need to live each day. On
the other hand, when we start being greedy and want to control others; when
we seek others misfortune or even death; when we try to take away what
others have worked long and hard for, then They will punish us. Do not
misjudge them for being evil. They are no more evil than are your parents,
mister Soraan. They love and cherish all of us and it hurts Them deeply to
have to punish us, but They must at times.'

Lastly I added: 'The four Elementals create all that we see before us; the
trees, the ground, the waves of the ocean, our houses and even us. And they
every day create what is needed for us to survive. Some times we have to
give our own help and work together with the Elementals to create what we
need. Such as wheels for our carts, where the wood is taken from the trees,
formed with the help of water, patience and hard work. Or the bread that we
take for granted. We sow the corn and the Elementals make them into corn by
watering it with rain and by allowing it to grow. The corn we can use to
make flour and with the flames of a oven we can bake our bread.'

Ending the class for today, I added: 'Ahh, but we have to stop our
philosophical debate here, young friends, or I will be in trouble with your
next teacher. Blessed be the Elementals and blessed be all of you!'
We all bowed our heads in a short prayer to the Elementals and then the
children left the open hut where we held classes. I watched them depart and
wondered if any of them would come to really understand the Elementals. I
had my eye on a few from this class who probably would. One of my goals with
this class was to give them inspiration to seek out for the Elementals to
try and learn from them. I noticed that one of my students was still in the
room. It was miss Tirana. I directed my attention towards her and smiled.
'Ahh, young Tirana. Can I help you with anything?'

She smiled a bit shyly and asked: 'What is it like to be one of them, mister
Hadelack? One of the Worshippers?'

She has asked one of the questions that I myself had always wondered about.
I had never gotten around to trying to learn more about the Worshippers;
being a teacher in this village and having a family of my own to take care
of. I pondered her question a few seconds, while I looked out towards the
islands and the smoking volcany in the distance. It was often possible to
view Menisca and the fiery mount Puros from the hut, but not that day
because of a bit of fog hanging over the bay.

I then answered: 'I honestly cannot tell you, young Tirana, as much as I
would have liked to. I know that once you dedicate your life to the service
of the Four Divine Elementals, you never give it up. It becomes your life.
Some seek to join them because of their way of life, peaceful and secluded
on the islands. Others seek to learn the seemingly magical powers of the
Elementals. I know that many have tried to become like the islanders, but
have returned shortly after, having not been accepted. Only those that are
true to themselves and everyone else can become a Worshipper it is told.
Those who just seek to learn their powers and not to learn about the
Worshippers are cast away.'

I studied the horizon, as if I was trying to see how life was on the two
islands out there, then I continued: 'Some of them come here once in a while
to trade with us or to seek new young hopefuls who are willing to learn about
them and join their temples. I know they are friendly and peaceful people,
but they are also a bit secretive and we rarely see them here in the village.'
Smiling, I added: 'In a week it will be time for the annual harvest feast.
They always show up on that occation to aid us and to listen to all who would
have any questions for them and their ways. I urge you to ask them at that
time..  I think I will come myself. I could do with a little knowledge about
the Worshippers.'

She thought about this a little and then smilingly nodded to me and said:
'Thank you, mister Hadelack. I will! I can hardly wait to meet them.' She
bowed her head in our customary and ancient greeting and left. I watched her
leave the hut and followed her with my thoughts. She was around the 18 years
old and was considering what to do with her life, I could see. I prayed
shortly to the Elementals that she would find what she sought. Given other
circumstances I would no doubt have followed my own heart and have sought
out the Worshippers myself.

The following day I had planned a two day trip away from our village with
that same class and a few of the other teachers, to teach the children about
the ways of survival in the wilderness. Our trip was going to take us to a
nearby forest. Meeting early in the morning, we all left walking out of the
village. Walking with me was young Soraan and Tirana and we talked about a
lot of things on the way into the wilderness. Both seemed interested in
learning more about the Worshippers and I was happy to hear about this. I
had the plesant opportunity of teaching them about a few of the rare plants
we found on the way. The day was warm and beautiful and the trip seemed to
have been blessed by the Elementals.

The two days in the wilderness passed mostly as we had planned it. Every
morning we blessed the world and all the beings on it by way of a prayer and
a song. Before each meal we thanked the Elemental Beings for giving us the
food that we need. This was done with a short prayer, spoken by one of the
children or one of the teachers as was customary. We told the children about
the Creation and about the circle of life around us. We told them how to
find roots to eat, how to hunt for small game and how to make sure it was
all good before they ate it.

One of the boys sprained his ancle falling down from a tree, but otherwise
we were all in good shape even after having slept two days in the open.
On the way home, young Tirana and Soraan happened to be my travelling
companions again. They both seemed determined and eager to get home to the
comming feast, though it was still a few days away. Soraan was bold as
always and told that he would join them no matter what. Miss Tirana, always
with her shy attitue, was more thoughtful. She seemed to consider the
matter very deeply and listened attentively every time we spoke about the
Worshippers or the Elemental Beings. She had many questions, but with my
own limited knowledge about the Islanders I could not help her much, except
to tell her to remember them and ask them to one of the Worshippers at the
feast.

Barely two leagues before we were the village, I heard a few shouts ahead.
Two of the fishermen from the village came running towards us. I could see
that something was wrong from the look in their eyes and one of them had
blood on his clothes! I asked all the children to stop and approached the
two fishermen. One of them, the oldest, a mister Hennar, told me in a
shocked and panting voice: 'You must turn back! The village has been overrun
by a kroug warband! They have killed many and they are probably looking for
us as we speak.'

Quickly I summoned the other teachers and we decided to head for the cliffs
south of the village. From there we would be able to watch the village and
see if we could help any survivors.

On the way towards the cliffs, Hennar told us more of his story: 'They came
shortly after midday; we had no chance of stopping them. They seemed to have
been in a great battle not long ago, many of them bleeding still from their
wounds, but they quickly overran us. Afterwards their leader made us watch
as they killed some of the other villagers.' Mister Hennar could not
continue, his voice faltering with grief. I could see the tortured look in
his eyes as he relived the horrible thing he had seen back in the village.
His comrade, a young man named Konnelor, bravely continued the tale: 'A few
of us managed to escape into the woods before they could catch us. One of
the others heard something about the kroug leaders wanting to attack Menisca
and Conchoida. Many of the krougs were rounding up our fishingboats before
we had to leave. I believe they intend to invade the islands!'

The last sentence was spoken a bit louder than the rest of his tale and the
children couldn't avoid to hear it. This caused a bit of a sturr in the ranks
of the children. We quickly had to calm them down and I told them all: 'Do
not worry. The Worshippers walk with the blessings of the Four Divine
Elementals. They will know what to do if they are attacked and they will help
us as soon as they have stopped the enemy.'

A few hours later we came to the cliffs and headed upwards. Finally two
hours later we could rest and take a look over the close surroundings.
Beneath us to the west we could hear the waves roll against the rocks of the
cliif. North of us, we could see smoke from the village, but we couldn't see
anything out of the ordinary from our position, except that the smoke came
from the shore where a few of the landed boats were burning. Then we looked
out to the sea to the west and we had to restrain ourselves hard not to gasp
too loudly.

Menisca was clearly visible from the cliffs, as was the mountain island
Pyros behind it. From Menisca we could see a thick rolling smoke rise, as
the settlements on the island burned in flames. In horrow we watched the
smoke and wondered what would become of us if the Worshippers would not be
able to stop the kroug warriors from slaying and burning everything on the
two islands.

I had the children taken away from the line of sight to the sea, so they
would not have to vitness the obvious destruction it revealed. Konnelor, who
was the least shaken of the two fishermen joined two of the teachers to go
down towards our village to see if they could find other survivors, while
the rest of us got the worst task of watching in soundless horror at the
smoke rising from Menisca.

For a little while, I thought I heard whispering voices carried with the
wind from the islands towards the coast, but I could never hear what they
were saying. I was very shaken at the time, so I might have imagined this.
I stood silently praying for the safety of the villagers and the Islanders.
There was nothing I could do but watch and grieve. Suddenly about two hours
later, I could feel something had changed. I looked up and out over the sea.
With shocked horror I watched as fire slowly began spewing from mount Pyros.
I could see molten glowing lava rolling down the side of the great mountain;
steam rising in great billowing clouds from where the lava ran into the sea.
Faintly visible from where I stood, I could see some of our fishingboats
sail from Menisca towards the far island of Conchoida. I could only guess
that this was the remains of the kroug warband. The ground began shaking
ever so slightly, as the tormented ground beneath the great rumbling
mountain reached the shoreline. More and more fire sprayed out from the
mountain and plunged into the now turbulent waters surrounding the boats
with the krougs.

Suddenly the ground shook violently and we all fell, failing to keep our
balance. Strugling to regain balance, we were soon knocked flat on our backs
again, this time by the incredible sound of a thunderous explosion that
almost left us deaf.

Much of the horizon towards the west was covered in steam and we could feel
the heat rolling past us a few minutes later, as the winds of the explosion
passed us on the cliff. Slowly the steam dissipated and we could see...
devastation. Mount Pyros had exploded and most of it was gone. Slowly the
islands were sinking beneath the waves until they were gone and nothing was
left but turbulent steaming waters where Mount Pyros had been only 20
minutes before. The final sigh of breath came when waves that towered almost
10 meters high crashed onto the shores beneath us and sprayed us with salty
water. This did a lot of damage to the village as well, when the waves
surged through almost half of the western part.

Later that day, we found our way back to our village Greensea. Here we found
most of the surviving people from the village, but we also found some of the
Islanders. They had landed on the shores outside the village a few hours
before the attack of the kroug warband. They told us that they had entered
the forest to gather some plants and berries. The attack on Menisca had
stopped them and they had come to the village where they had taken care of
the wounded villagers. They were now helping us rebuild our homes.
For some reason they didn't seem quite as sad as I had thought they would
have been. Loosing my beloved home is not something I would have been happy
about. It seemed to me as if they knew that their fellow Worshippers from
the two islands were now somewhere safe where noone could hurt them. Well,
much of that was pure guessing from me anyway, but still, there was a part
of me that hoped this would be so.

They insisted that we should hold our annual feast and they helped make it a
very memorable happening. Though many of us had lost family and friends, we
joined the faithful Islanders and changed the feast to become a celebration
of the Days of Creation. Drawing on the powers of the Elementals, they gave
us the story of the four days that saw the creation of the world.
One of the Worshippers created a great rock that spun lifelessly before us
in the air. Another melted it with a bright flame of fire. Together they
formed the rock to have mountains and valleys. Then a third of the Islanders
sprayed the now formed rock with water, creating tiny oceans, rivers and
lakes on the surface of the rock. Last of all, a beautiful young lady
breathed gently over the lifeless rock and it appeared to come to life. In
the meantime their chorus of different voices chanted the story of the
creation of the world. Their voices sounded like it was the Elementals who
were talking to us directly.

Moved to tears, all we could do was listen and watch as the Islanders
blessed us with their very special version of the Creation.

Afterwards young miss Tirana and I had a chance to talk with one of the
Worshippers. Though he seemed sad about the loss of his old home, he also
saw a new hope. He told us that they had found a place where they would
build a new home for themselves. Though much had been lost, the Elementals
was still with them and they would not give up.

The following day the Islanders left the village and we didn't hear from
them again for some time. With them was miss Tirana, who had decided to
dedicate her life to the Elementals. It was sad to loose the young lady, but
also reassuring to see that she had decided to follow such a peaceful and
noble path as becomming a Worshipper of the Four Elementals. We still get to
see her from time to time, as she visits the village. One day, I have
decided, I will ask her to take me with her to her new home and I will then
ask them to allow me to join their Circle. Thus ends my tale of the days
that changed many things.

As told by the herbalist and teacher of the village of Greensea.
