--------------------------------------------------------------------------
                             THE ANTEILLUMINA
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
This is the revelation of the Anteillumina, the words about the things
which occured before the illumination, to the people of the valley now
called Argos, in the land of Calia, as revealed to Alethius the Prophet
of the Light.
 
And it came to pass that the remnant who had been lead by the Tritheon
and Dephonia to the land of Calia settled on the island in the river
of their seculded valley, making tents for their homes, planting crops,
and reviving the works of the craftsmen among them. And they named their
settlement Tritheonopolis, for they desired to build a great city there.
 
For seven years they lived thus, the Tritheon appearing to them often
and governing them with their words. Dephonia appeared to her followers
in secret, and encouraged them to work against the wishes of the Tritheon,
that worship of her would prevail amongst the people. And when the Tritheon
discovered the treachery of Dephonia, they instructed their followers
to persecute those of Dephonia. All these things lead to unrest amongst
the people, causing violent riots to erupt at various times.
 
Now the Light, the creator of the universe, saw all that the Tritheon and
Dephonia had done, and how their meddling caused strife amongst the
people, and so she sent her great spirit to them and said, "With your
words you cause the people to rise up against one another, and they
do not inherit the peace you promise to them! Therefore you shall no
long appear to them, and manipulate them with your words! You shall
only chose a few from them number to whom you may grant your powers,
and only one to whom you may speak through visions, each one of you!"
 
And the three fell before the great spirit and said, "It is the evil
one who causes this strife, for the promise given to us and our
followers was not given to her, yet she followed us and received our
reward, and it is her people who do evil against ours!" And the great
spirit replied, "The Creator has seen the treachery of Dephonia, and
is not pleased. One shall be raised from amongst your people whom the
Creator shall illumine, and the truth of you all shall be revealed unto
him, and he shall teach the people, and bring the Light unto the
evil ones, and to all who hear. And those who follow him shall fight
against the darkness of evil, and bring all those who choose to be
blessed by the Creator unto the truth of the Light! " And with this,
the great spirit left them.
 
And so the Tritheon appeared unto their people one last time, and each
of the three chose from amongst the people those who would serve them
as their priests and priestesses, and each chose one who was anointed
before all the people and given the title Hierophant, and the three
hierophants were set over the people to rule them, for they should
receive revelations through visions from the three. And Dephonia
likewise appeared unto her servants in secret, for they were in
hiding for fear of their lives, and did the same, and instructed her
followers, "Be quiet and patient for a while, and gather many into
your number secretly, that your strength may grow and one day overthrow
the masters set over you." And with this the Three and the evil one
appeared no more to the people.
 
Now the council of the three hierophants, the high priests or high
priestesses of the Tritheon, were given the government of the people
of Tritheonopolis, a city of tents and farms, on an island in a
river in a secluded valley. And the followers of the Dephonians hid
amongst the people, and worshipped her in secret, and peace came
to the people for a while.
 
And the hierophants said to the people, "Let us build great temples to
the Tritheon, to Pharos and to Thema and to Arxes, for it is they
who saved us and they whom we worship!" And so the people set out
to construct the three great temples of Tritheonopolis. And it came
to pass that the hierophants directed all the efforts of the people
to the work of the building of the marble monoliths, under the mastery
of their priests and priestesses, and the people toiled constantly under
their oppressive reign.
 
And the people began to grumble in their toil, and the number of the
followers of Dephonia blossomed, for they encouraged the people to turn
to the Mother of the Light of Darkness, to overthrow the oppression of
the hierophants. And the Dephonians grew bold with their numbers, and
began to speak in the streets against Pharos and Thema and Arxes and
their hierophants, and the unrest grew into violence, and to open
clashes between the priests of Dephonia and the priests of Arxes who
maintained the rule of the hierophants, and the people fell into
despair, for they feared a great war was at its dawn.
 
These are the words of the Anteillumina, of those things which occured
before the illumination, to the people who lived in the valley now called
Argos, in the land of Calia, as revealed unto Alethius the Prophet of the Light.
