--------------------------------------------------------------------------
                             THE APOSTELLON
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
These are the words of The Apostellon, of the sending out of the messengers
of the Light to the world, from the village of Chorio Hagios, in the
valley of Argos, in the land of Calia.
 
And it came to pass that the angel of the Light appeared unto Alethius,
the Prophet of the Light, and said to him, "Hail Alethius the Prophet
of the Light! You have fulfilled the mission which has been given to
you! You have brought your people to this holy place, blessed by the
Light, and have further illumined your people! A new mission you are now
given, to send the message of the Light to the uttermost parts of the
world, that all those who believe shall receive the blessings of the
Light, and that the darkness of evil be dispelled throughout the lands!"
 
"Therefore you shall choose from amongst your people these six, who
have been chosen for illumination as you have been chosen: Hodius the
mason; Zoeh the seamstress; Pisteus the smith; Elpida the bee keeper;
Agapus the teacher of children; and Philetheus the scribe. And you shall
lay your hands upon them, and give them your blessing, and they shall be
enlightened. And all that has been revealed to you, you shall teach them.
And when the time has come, you shall send them out into the world, beyond
the mountains of Argos, beyond the shores of Calia, to the utmost parts of
the world. And they shall bring the truth of the Light to distant lands, and
followers they will gather around them, and communities of the children of
the Light shall they found, and the adoration of the Light shall they
foster." And with this, the angel left him.
 
And so Alethius called his people together, and called forth the
six who had been chosen, and set them before the people. He spoke
the words the angel had said unto him, and when he finished, he
laid his hands on the six, and blessed them. And a radiant light
filled the sky over them, and rainbows mixed with lightining
flashed above, and all fell down and sang praises to the Light.
 
After this Alethius spent one year teaching the six, whom he called
the Aposteloi, for they were to be sent out into the world. And
the Aposteloi grew in wisdom and adoration of the Light, and became
bold speakers and highly revered teachers in the village. And
when the time came, Alethius called the people together, and the
supreme rites of the Light were performed, burning incense and
lighting candles and chanting canticles. And when the ceremony was
finished, Alethius sent the Aposteloi out saying, "Go now, Aposteloi
of the Light, and fulfill the mission which has been given to you!"
And with that, the Aposteloi left the village together, and there was
both great joy and sadness at their leaving.
 
Now the Aposteloi traveled together to many lands, and spoke the
truth of the Light to many peoples. And at some places, they were
stoned and beaten and cast out, for the people would not hear
their words, or their hearts were filled with evil. But in other
places some of the people listened, and believed the words of the
Aposteloi, and a community of the Light was established there.
And at each community, one of the Aposteloi remained to lead them,
while the rest continued on their journey, until the last pair
parted, and each was in a different land.
 
Over the years the Aposteloi wrote letters to Alethius and to the
children of the Light at Chorio Hagios, telling of their failures
and their successes, of their joys and their sorrows. And some letters
were written by the followers or companions of the Aposteloi,
telling of their death, some in the peace of their community, and
others at the hands of murderers. All these letters have been preserved
until this very day, and are read diligently by the faithful.
 
Now Alethius lived many years in Chorio Hagios, nuturing his people
and corresponding with the Aposteloi. And the time came for
Alethius to die, and he summoned his scribes unto him, and said
to them, "Write all I am about to tell you, and obey all I am
about to command you, for my time here is short, and I shall
leave you soon." The prophet gave his final teachings to his
scribes, and when he had finished, he laid his hands on Grammaeus
his scribe and said, "I ordain you the Archpresbyter of the people,
who shall lead my people in all that they do. And I do also ordain
all who shall succeed you, as shall be done with they imposition of
hands."
 
After this, Alethius arose and said, "I must go into the forest, for
an old prophecy shall be fulfilled there. After one day, you shall
come for me." With this, he hugged all of his people and set off
into the forest. After one day, Grammeues took a party and went
into the forest after Alethius as they had been commanded, expecting
to find him there where he would reveal his final teachings too
them. Instead they found a great horror, and at the sight they began
to wail and tear their clothes, for they found Alethius lying by
the river, next to a tree, with a Dephonian dagger in his heart.
And then they realized the prophecy of which Alethius had spoke
was fulfilled, that a blade would one day bring great sorrow and
despair to the children of the Light.
 
They brought Alethius' body back to the village of Chorio Hagios, and
there made a tomb for him on the hill. There was great despair
amongst the people, and the mourning lasted many weeks. Grammaeus
wrote unto the Aposteloi who remained, and to the communities of
the children of the Light, and told them of all that had happened.
And so the people of Chorio Hagios continued to live in peace,
under the leadership of the gentle and humble Grammaeus the Archpresbyter.
 
And it came to pass that a letter arrived in Chorio Hagios, telling
the sad news that Agapus, the last of the living of the Aposteloi,
had died in his land, and had been buried in a shrine as had the
others. And Grammaeus was distraught, for he knew not what to do,
for he had not been illumined as the Aposteloi, and had hoped one
of them would return to lead in the place of the beloved Prophet.
 
These are the words of The Apostellon, of the sending out of the messengers
of the Light to the world, from the village of Chorio Hagios, in the
valley of Argos, in the land of Calia.
