--------------------------------------------------------------------------
                             THE ILLUMINA
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
These are the words of the Illumina, the story of the illumination of
Alethius by the angel of the Light, and of the illumination of the
people of Argos by the Prophet of the Light.
 
Now Tritheonopolis was mired in a violent struggle, a battle between the
priests of Arxes who defended the Tritheon, and those of Dephonia who
sought to defeat them. And the struggle halted the construction of the
temples, which were nearing completion, and the people hid in their
tents and escaped into the forest to avoid the violence, as Arxes and
Dephonia granted many destructive powers to their priests in the struggle.
 
There was a man amongst the workers named Alethius, a candle maker by
trade, who was in despair with the rest of his bretheren.  Alethius often
left the strife of the city for the peacefulness of the forest, and the
soothing sounds of the river.  A day came when he walked through the trees
along the banks of the river, dreaming of a day when peace would return,
that a great and luminous angel appeared before him, so bright that he was
blinded by its light.  And the angel said "Hail Alethius of Tritheonopolis,
rejoice!  For you have been chosen by the Light to receive the revelation
of truth!  And you shall bring the truth of the Light to the evil ones!"
With this the angel began its revelations to Alethius, which continued each
day for several weeks.  At the appointed time, the angel said, "Go now
Alethius, for you are the Prophet of the Light! Fulfill your mission and
illumine your people!"
 
And so Alethius returned to his people, and began teaching them saying,
"I have been illumined by the Light, the Creator of the universe, who sent
her angel unto me! Hearken unto my words! The evil ones, those who follow
the Mother of the Light of Darkness, must turn from their evil ways, and
worship the Light! Heed my words, and peace shall come to us! The Light
also welcomes those who follow the Tritheon, who were created by the Light,
and who serve the Light!"
 
At this, many of the people heeded Alethius and began to follow him.
Alethius and his followers removed themselves from the fighting, but
stayed amongst the people, proclaiming the truth, and ministering
to those who were hurt by the unrest.
 
But Dephonia spoke to her hierophant through a vision, saying, "You
shall kill this Alethius, for he blasphemes against me." This she
commanded that none of her followers would hear the words of Alethius,
and come to the Light, so that she might escape the judgement as
proclaimed by the great spirit. And so the Dephonians sought to kill
Alethius, and hunted him.
 
Now as Alethius was teaching in the streets, and bringing the truth of
the Light to those who were persuaded by the Dephonians, a priest of
Dephonia came upon him, and attacked him. There was a priest of Arxes
in the crowd, who rushed to Alethius' aid, and using the powers of
Arxes, protected Alethius and slew the evil priest. At this, Alethius
proclaimed to the Arxesian priest, "May the Light illumine you, Argosius
of the Order of Arxes, for you came to the help of the Prophet of the
Light! You shall be a blessing to your people, you and all your
descendants!"
 
And the Tritheon saw all that had happened, and hearing the blessing of
Alethius upon the Arexesian priest called Argosius, they said to themselves,
"The Prophet called by the Light has blessed our priest and all his
descendants. Let us glorify him, for it will please the Creator to
do so." With this, the Tritheon called out to the Creator, and asked,
"Allow us to return to our people, and reward the one whom your prophet
has blessed!" The Creator sent her spirit to the Tritheon and said,
"The Creator is pleased with your priest, and with your request. You
may do so." And with this, the spirit left them.
 
And so the Tritheon appeared before the people, and all were amazed, for
they had not been seen in many years. And the Tritheon proclaimed,
"We bring a new rule to you, that our people be united against the
evil one, and live in peace and harmony! We choose Argosius of the
Order of Arxes, great in wisdom, a great warrior, and one who will
heal his people! We ordain him your king, he and all his descendents,
and you will obey him, all the people and the hierophants as well!" And
with this proclamation, the Tritheon elevated Argosius above the crowd,
and coronated him King of Tritheonopolis, and set him to rule over
all the people. With this, the Tritheon left them.
 
And the crowd rose in acclamation, shouting "Hail King Argosius!", and
elation and hope spread throughout Tritheonopolis. Now the Dephonians
became afraid, for though the Tritheon had appeared before the people,
they received no word from their goddess. And they said to themselves,
"That which the prophet said has come to pass, and our Mother does
not appear to us! Let us escape into the forest, before more of our
number heed the word of the prophet, or fall to the power of Argosius!"
And so the Dephonian priests and priestesses fled into the forests
of the valley, off the island of the river, along with a handful of
their faithful who had not heeded the words of the Prophet.
 
Thus peace returned to Tritheonopolis for a short while, as Argosius
began his rule there. And King Argosius issued a decree, that Alethius
and his followers were welcome to remain in the city as long as they
wished. Alethius and his followers continued to teach the truth of the
Light to all who would hear, and the number of their followers grew daily.
 
Now the followers of Dephonia remained in the forests for a while, where
they were encouraged and strengthened by their goddess, who granted
them even more of her power and other frightful gifts. And as the
Dephonians prepared to attack the city, Alethius received a vision which
he reported to King Argosius, saying "Prepare yourself, for the evil ones
have been strengthened in the forest, and are ready to descend upon
your kingdom and wrest it from your hands."
 
And King Argosius heeded the words of the prophet, for they had proven
true in the past. He gathered together his new army which he had trained,
along with the priests of Arxes, and lay in wait for the Dephonians as
they crossed the river back onto the island, where the great battle
was fought. Victory was given to the forces of Tritheonopolis, a victory
which sent the scant remnant of the Dephonians deeper into the forest,
where they would not be heard from again. Though a great sorrow fell
over the city, for King Argosius was slain in the battle, by a great
beast which had been created from the Light of Darkness. And the city
was renamed Argos, in honour of the great king who had been chosen
by the Tritheon.
 
Thus was the Light brought to Tritheonopolis, and the followers of the
evil one all but destroyed.
 
These are the words of the Illumina, the story of the illumination of
Alethius and his people, in the valley of Argos, in the land of Calia.
3î?~?§Ý~?~?	¿~?~
ð?~?~?+0
