--------------------------------------------------------------------------
                             THE METANASTUESAE
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
These are the words of the Metanastuesae, the migration of the Alethius,
the Prophet of the Light, and his followers, out of the city of Argos,
and of their settlement in the forest.
 
And it came to pass, that Paxeus the son of Argosius was crowned King
of Argos by the hierophants of the Tritheon before all the people.
And Paxeus summoned Alethius to his court, and sending away all the
members of his court, asked Alethius to bless him as he had his father.
This Alethius did, and King Paxeus thanked him greatly.
 
In a short time, the angel of Light appeared to Alethius and said, "Hail
Alethius the Prophet of the Light! You have illumined the people of
Argos, and many follow you! And the followers of the evil one have been
driven out, and the blessing you made on Argosius and his descendants
has been granted! You have fulfilled your mission here, and the Light
is pleased! New instructions I now give you, that you take your
followers and leave the city of Argos. You shall take your people
into the forest to a place I shall reveal to you, and there you will
make a settlement for yourselves, that you may live together in peace
and harmony, and may worship the Light undeterred by those kings and
hierophants of Argos who shall come, for though you live in peace with
them now, their successors may become irritated with your teachings,
and turn against you. Thus you shall leave now, that your peace with them
shall endure forever." With this the angel left him.
 
And Alethius obeyed the angel, and gathered his people and their belongings
together, and after a feast day proclaimed by King Paxeus, the left they
city of Argos and traveled east of the city, deep in the forest to a
place along the banks of the Tritheon river, and there they settled, at
the place where the angel lead Alethius. They built for themselves a small
village, which they named Cio Hagios, which means "holy village" in the
old tongue, for it was the place chosen for them by the Light.
 
It was during this time that Alethius continued to receive revelations
from the angel of the Light, and that he began to write down those
things which were revealed to him, and to teach these things to his
followers. The Prophet also began to teach them prayers and rites
which honor the Light, and to prepare them for the day when he
should die, and they would continue on their own. He revealed that
the angel of the Light had told them that great things were planned
for them, but that the fullness of the revelation would not be
revealed until its proper time.
 
Now relations with the city of Argos remained well for the villagers
of Chorio Hagios, as many of their family members remained there.
Frequent travel between the city and the village eventually lead
to the construction of a road between the two, and a small trade
flourished, the followers of Alethius being primarily craftsmen and
farmers.
 
But danger lurked in the forest around the village, as the Dephonians
were rumored to roam in search of victims, especially amongst the
followers of Alethius, who had blasphemed their goddess, and brought
many of their followers to the Light, and had blessed the King of
Argos. King Paxeus offered to station a garrison of the new, secular,
army in Chorio Hagios, but Alethius refused. Instead, the villagers
trained in basic defenses, using staffs as weapons, as blades had
become forbidden amongst them, for Alethius had received a prophecy
that a blade would one day bring sorrow and despair to the followers
of the Light.
 
And thus they continued for several years, growing in their understanding
and adoration of the Light.
 
These are the words of the Metanastuesae, the migration of the Alethius,
the Prophet of the Light, and his followers, out of the city of Argos,
and of the founding of the village of Chorio Hagios.
