--------------------------------------------------------------------------
                           THE PROTOLOGOS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
This is the revelation of the Protologos, the words about the first things,
as revealed to Alethius, the Prophet of the Light.
 
The Light always was and always shall be, amen! The Light is the creator
of the universe, the benevolent mother of all creation. All things and
all places and all beings were made by her, through her wisdom and glory.
 
The lands she made, and the flora; the fauna she made, and the mortals.
Immortal spirits she also made, who roam creation as a child roams
the serene forests. One host of such spirits came together, and formed a
family, dwelling in the skies above and visiting the lands below. Each
spirit learned to manipulate the objects of creation, each in its
own way. As they grew in knowlege, the spirits believed themselves to
be the crowning jewels of creation, better than all other things and all
other beings and all other spirits which existed. This they believed of
themselves though the creator never ordained it so.
 
And it came to pass that the spirits of this family noticed that mortals
had begun to worship and give honor to many things in creation; to
other spirits and even to objects which could not speak or hear their
prayers. Jealousy and indignation filled these spirits, and they said to
themselves, "These ignorant mortals pay homage to the dregs of creation,
and yet they ignore us as nothing. Let us reveal ourselves unto them,
and show them our power, that they may revere the summit of creation."
 
And so the spirits revealed themselves to a primitive clan of mortals, and
performed great acts before them, each of the realm of his own knowledge.
And the mortals were amazed, and stood in awe of these beings. The
spirits commanded the mortals to worship them, and in return they
would bestow favours on the mortals, and reveal to them their names.
This the mortals did, and named the family of spirits the Pantheon, for
they believed them to be the host of gods who commanded the world.
And the mortals called themselves the Pantheists, for they obeyed and
followed those who had revealed themselves.
 
The Pantheon instructed the mortals to build magnificent temples for them,
and to worship them with with song and ritual, and to sacrifice unto
them. This the mortals did. The Pantheon blessed their mortal followers,
and the mortals flourished, building great cities and growing in
prosperity.
 
And it came to pass aeons later, that the mortals began to inquire of the
Pantheon, "From where do you come, and from where are we?" Not knowing the
truth of these questions, they said to themselves, "If we tell them
we know not, or that we were created as they, they will turn from
us. Let us tell them then, that we always have been, and always
shall be, and that we created the world, the land and the seas,
the flora and the fauna, the beasts and themselves." And this the
Pantheon told to the mortals, saying it as a great revelation to
them, and they performed great acts with their teaching, and the
mortals believed, and worshipped them all the more.
 
And the Light, the creator of the universe, took note of the pride and
deceit of the Pantheon, and she became angry. A powerful spirit she
sent to them, who proclaimed, "Wicked are you, spirits of old! You
have been given immortality, and powers over small things in
creation, to each his own. And yet you take upon yourselves the glory
of the creator, and deceive the mortals, and build yourselves up in
their eyes, and your gluttony for their adoration never ceases!
Thus you shall be cursed! The pleasures which you seek shall become
your very existence! Without the worship of the mortals, you shall
not exist! When the day comes that no mortal follows you, into
oblivion you shall be cast, never to be heard of again!" And the
great spirit left them.
 
The Pantheon said to themselves, "This surely can not be, for we
are immortal. This spirit is a spirit of lies, and seeks to take our
honor from us, which is due to us alone. Let his words be forgotten,
for they are not true. We shall continue as always. None of what he
says shall come to pass."
 
And the creator saw the disbelief of the Pantheon, that in their pride
they should ignore her messenger, and her anger grew. A second time
she sent a powerful spirit to them, proclaiming thus, "You have
ignored the admonision given to you, your pride bequeaths ignorance
and deceit! Thus you shall know that the words given unto you are true,
for hordes of barbarian mortals shall descend upon your followers,
your temples they shall tear down, the worship of you they shall cut off,
the cities built in your honor they shall burn, and your followers
shall be scattered, and they shall loose their faith, and the words
I spoke to you before shall come to pass, and you shall cease to exist!"
And the great spirit left them.
 
And it came to pass as the great spirit had said. Ferocious tribes from
distant lands fell upon the Pantheists. The hordes burned the cities,
tore down the temples, massacred the priests and priestesses of the
Pantheon, and scattered the followers. And those who were left said
to themselves, "The Pantheon we have followed and believed, and yet
they do not keep their promises, for we are lost. Songs we shall
sing to them no more, and rituals for them we will perform no longer,
and sacrifices to them we will no longer make, for they are unable
to save us." And many abandoned the faith.
 
And thus it came to pass, that members of the Pantheon began to disappear,
while the others groaned in agony, awaiting the abandonment or death
of the last mortal who believed in them. And there were three of the
Pantheon named Pharos, called the god of Healing, Thema, called the
goddess of Wisdom, and Arxes, called the god of war, who said to themselves,
"The prophecy of the great spirit is coming to pass, surely it was
sent by the Creator as it said. Let us beseech the Creator to forgive
us, and beg her mercy." And this they did, crying to the Creator to
forgive them, and to save them from the judgement.
 
Now the Creator heard their words, and noting that these three had always
done good for their mortal followers, by healing them, giving them wisdom
to make better lives for themselves, and aiding in battles against evil,
sent the great spirit to the three saying, "The Creator hears your cries
of repentance, and has seen the good you have done for the mortals!
Therefore, your people shall be spared, that you not be cast into
oblivion! You are to lead what is left of your people from this land,
across the seas to another land, where they may live in peace." And
with this the great spirit left them.
 
And so the three appeared unto their followers, and gathered them into
a remnant, and sent three fowl before them, a dove, an owl and a falcon,
and instructed the remnant of the people to follow the fowl where ever
they went. And so the people did this, and gathered together what they
could, and followed the fowl to the coast of their land. And the remnant
named the three whom they followed "the Tritheon," for they were the
last three know left of the Pantheon.
 
Now there was another spirit of the Pantheon named Dephonia, who wielded
an evil power called the Light of Darkness, and she saw what the three had
done, and said to herself, "I too shall be saved from judgement, for I
shall send my faithful to follow these into safety." And thus she appeared
unto her followers, and instructed them to gather together and to
migrate. And she sent a raven before them, and instructed them to follow
the raven where ever it went. And the raven she made to follow the
dove, the owl, and the falcon at three days distance.
 
And thus the remnant, the first wave lead by the three fowl, and the
second by the raven, boarded great ships and sailed across the seas,
to a land called Calia, where they disembarked. And the fowl lead them
from the coasts to the east, toward a range of high mountains.
 
Over the mountains and into a valley they lead them, to a large island
in the middle of a river, uninhabited and seculded from the natives
of the land. And the three appeared to the remnant and said, "Here
you shall live in peace, and our protection you will have, for
the barbarians of this land never travel here." The remnant fell
down before the three and praised them, saying "Great are the three
who lead us here, and saved us from destruction! Hail the Tritheon!"
 
And shortly it came to pass that a strange raven appeared in the sky,
and circled over them, and then arrived a group of stragglers from
their homeland, who were thought to have been left behind. These
were the faithful of Dephonia, who had sent the raven as a sign to
lead them, instructing the raven to follow the dove and the owl and
the falcon.
 
And thus the remnants of the Pantheists of a far away land came to
Calia, and began a new life, and they called themselves the Tritheists,
because they were saved by the Tritheon, and so remained faithful to
them.
 
These are the words of the revelation of the Protologos, the words about
first things, as revealed unto Alethius, the Prophet of the Light.
