--------------------------------------------------------------------------
                             THE THEMELIOSAE
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
These are the words of The Themeliosae, of the founding of the Order of
those who are called out, as it happened at the shrine of Alethius,
near the village of Chorio Hagios, in the valley of Argos, in the
land of Calia.
 
Now one day, after the supreme rites of the Light were performed in the
village, the people gathered together and processed to the enshrined
tomb of Alethius, as had become their custom. They carried unlit
candles with them, and burned incense and sang as they walked.
And when they arrived at the shrine on the hill, Grammaeus and his
scribes encircled the shrine, burning incense and chanting
canticles in honor of Alethius and of the Light.
 
And at that moment, a great fire descended from the sky, and there
appeared before them seven illumined figures, who shone so brightly
that they were almost blinded. And then they realized that the
figures who stood before them were Alethius and the Aposteloi.
And the seven spoke in unison, "Great is the Light! May the Light
illumine you!" And the people fell down in awe and shouted
praises to the Light.
 
And then the figure of Alethius began to speak to the people, saying,
"Behold, the Aposteloi of the Light! Great is the Light, for we
have been most highly illumined! The Light in her wisdom and majesty
has elevated us to a new form within her creation, great spirits
of which even the gods of Argos and of all the lands are in awe! And
we have been sent to proclaim your mission unto you, for the time of
the Illumination is complete, for the message of the Light has been
brought to the utmost parts of the world, and the messengers of the
Light have left this world and been exalted!"
 
"And this now we command you! You shall continue as you have been,
living in peace and harmony with one another in the communities
of the children of the Light. But some of you will be called out
of the community, to be the priests and priestesses of the Light.
And these shall be called the Ekklesia, for they have been called
out from amongst the people. And they shall be given great powers
by the Light, that all may know that you and your descendants
testify to the truth. And your powers shall be used thus; to worship
and honor the light through rites and song; to foster a spirit of
brotherhood and unity amongst you; and to destroy the forces of
evil in the world!"
 
"And this also you shall do: you shall visit the shrines of the Aposteloi
in the lands where they are, and you shall burn incense before their tombs
therein, and sing canticles in their honor, and light candles in their
rememberance, and in prayer ask for their blessings. For these things you do
here now are pleasing to the Light, that the messengers she sent shall
be remembered and venerated for all time. And so it shall be, that none
shall be called out unless they have venerated us so. And unto any who
seek our blessings, and to pay homage to the Light, these things they
also may do, though they may not be called out to our service."
 
"And thus it shall be, that the Order of Ekklesia is now founded,
and the strictures of said Order shall be revealed unto you over
the years. For now, the Order shall remain cloistered here in this
holy place. But a time shall come when peoples of all lands shall
be called out, and shall be drawn to this holy place, and shall join
the ranks of your Order, and shall be released upon the world, to worship
the light and destroy the darkness of evil throughout the lands!"
 
"And here you shall build the Basilica of the Sun, for the Sun is
the supreme symbol of the Light, which the Light has set in the
sky to rule over the lands, and to testify to her power and glory.
And in the Basilica the supreme rites in worship of the Light shall be
done, and rites of veneration in our honour shall you perform.
And with it you shall build the living quarters of the Order,
as to whatever needs there may be. And thus shall the truth which was
revealed by the Light unto the peoples of the world endure forever!"
 
And as the figure of Alethius finished his words, Grammaeus and his
scribes were emblazoned with fire, though they did not burn. And
with this the power of the Light was bestowed upon them, as the
Aposteloi had said. And with this the figures left them, and the
bright light ceased, and all returned to normal as if nothing had
happened, the birds chirping in the forest.
 
Now Grammaeus the Archpresbyter and his scribes, upon whom the fire
had descended, began to channel the power of the Light through the
rites they performed and their prayers to the Light, with the
intercession of the Aposteloi. And they and all the people began
the construction of the Basilica of the Sun, as they had been
instructed, over the tomb of Alethius, so that the Basilica became
the shrine of Alethius itself. And the priests and priestesses
inhabited the Basilica when it was completed, and there spent their
lives worshipping the Light and deepening their understanding and
ability to wield the powers given them, and receiving further
revelations and instructions as to how their Order was to function,
awaiting the day when the prophecy should be fulfilled, that those
from distant lands would come to them to be illumined.
 
These are the words of The Themeliosae, of the founding of the Order of
those who are called out, as it happened at the shrine of Alethius,
near the village of Chorio Hagios, in the valley of Argos, in the
land of Calia.
