----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                THE STEIDHICH
                       The Fifth Book of Sheaynt Keophen
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
As is written in the book of The Ascension, the Solsheyderi had climbed the
holy mount, and had been taken into Neamh, the abode of Ardaugh, where all
are in perfect and eternal harmony with him (may we all attain these
heights), and had been granted great powers and wisdom to interceed on
behalf of the faithful who invoke their name. And that at their first
appearing, they commanded that all the elders of The Way should assemble
to receive a great revelation, for which a great vigil of nine days began
until the elders had been assembled, of whom I was one, and prepared for
the great day.
 
And then came the ninth day, the day on which the Solsheyderi proclaimed
they would meet with the gathering of the elders. At about midday, as
the sun shone brightly in the sky, great black clouds began to roll in the
sky and the land became dark. Voices from the sky began to whisper, "Ascend
the holy mount, chosen of The Way, for you are summoned to your mission!"
 
And so with some fear and great expectation, the elders assembled in
processesion, and marched reverently up the holy mount, which none but the
Solsheyderi had climbed since it had been consecrated. They removed their
shoes and bowed their heads and clasped their hands in prayer, and
continued singing the canticles of praise to Ardaugh in unison as they
processed up the mountain's side. By now great crowds of people from many
lands filled the village to overflowing, that even the beaches were packed
with onlookers, wondering what great event was about to occur.
 
After an hour of reverential procession, the elders reached the peak of
the mount, where they found a great plain, level and covered with lush
grass and trees, and in the midst of the light forest, a great clearing.
The elders formed a large circle in the clearing, their chants and
prayers in unison never ceasing, and when all were in place, all knelt
upon the ground, and a silence fell over them for about an hour.
 
And then there appeared in the midst of the circle of elders a great light,
as had been seen in the village nine days earlier, and in the light
appeared the Nine, larger than life and shining with the glory and power
of Ardaugh. And in unision they spoke saying, "The Harmony of Ardaugh
be with you! Do not be afraid, for you are encompassed with the power
of the Most High!"
 
And with this the light grew brighter, so bright that many of the elders
shaded their eyes. And in the midst of the Solsheyderi, who stood in a
circle, appeared the Archangel Maighal in all his glory. And at this,
the elders fell upon their faces in fear and cried out, for none had
seen the archangel before, save the Solsheyderi themselves.
 
And the archangel spoke to them saying, "The Peace of Ardaugh be with
you! Do not be afraid, for I bring you great tidings!" And with this the
power of peace fell over the elders, and they were at ease, and the
light no longer blinded them. "Arise before me elders of the faithful,"
the archangel commanded, and the elders obeyed.
 
And the archangel addressed them saying, "Behold, those who revealed the
light to you have been assumed into the power of Ardaugh, and walk the
earth with you no more. But be not dismayed, for they and I shall hear
the prayers of the faithful, and shall present their petitions before The
Most High, and we shall be with you always, for we shall abide with you
forever, as long as you remain faithful and obedient. And here today I
bind you more closely in a stronger Covenant; henceforth you shall be
called the Order of Ard-Rhian, the Way of enlightenment in the Harmony
of Ardaugh!"
 
The Solsheyderi then began to speak in unison, saying, "And you, who are
chosen from the faithful as their elders, shall be given the staff of
authority to rule over your flock; they shall be obedient to you as they
have been to us, and you shall be a shepherd to them, guiding them in
harmony, teaching them the truths of the Faith, and leading them toward
the attainment of the utmost harmony with Ardaugh. Henceforth, you are
ordained and entitled an Ard-Athair, the High Father of your flock."
 
And with this the Solsheyderi raised their hands and began to chant, and
a great light fell upon all the elders who were assembled, and they were
given the power of wisdom and the authority to rule the faithful who
remain mortal. And the Ard-Athairs shouted with a great voice of their
fidelity to the Solsheyderi, and to Maighal the Archangel, and to Ardaugh
the Most High.
 
And then the archangel spoke once again, saying, "And I shall set one over
you, who shall ensure the unity and harmony and peace of the Order, and
you shall be obedient to him even as you are obedient to us. He and his
successors shall ever rule the faithful, with the staff of a shepherd,
teaching, defending and seeking to return those who stray. The one
which shall be set over you, you shall call him the Seirsanach, for he
sees all and considers all and judges all. He will be given great wisdom,
and to him will be revealed the will of Ardaugh, through us or an Oracle
who may be sent."
 
And with this, the Solsheyderi turned and faced me and said, "Stand forth
Keophen of Ella Erin, for you have found favor with us! You shall be the
first Seirsanach of the faithful!" And so with fear I approached the
shining ones, and fell upon my face, and with a trembling voice said,
"Do unto me as you will!" And with this, the Nine placed their hands upon
me, and I was filled with the harmony and wisdom of the Nine. Commanding
me to arise, I obeyed, standing before the Archangel, in the midst of the
Nine, in the midst of the elders.
 
And then the Solsheyderi said unto me, "Do not be afraid Keophen, for
you have been chosen for a great task, the first to hold the staff. And so
we shall commune with you, and you shall be the first Oracle of Ardaugh.
We shall not leave you in darkness; and we say this that all may know who
speaks for us, and for the High Servant, and for the Most High."
 
And the archangel proclaimed with a mighty voice, "So be the will of
Ardaugh! Proclaim it to the world!" And with a mighty blast of his
trumpet, he and the Nine and the shining brilliance atop the mountain
disappeared, and all returned to quiet, and we all stood awestruck.
 
One by one my brothers and sisters came to me, and kneeling before me,
pledged their obedience to me. And then we descended the mountain to the
village, singing of the glories of Ardaugh the Most High, and his servant,
and of the nine. When we arrived in the village, all of what had happened
was revealed to the faithful, and a great shout of praise went up from them,
and the celebrations lasted nine days. After this, each returned unto his
homeland to spread the word of the establishment of the Order.
 
After this the Solsheyderi appeared to me many times, and revealed the will
of Ardaugh to me, that I might instruct and guide the Faithful. And they
instructed me to write all that they had told me of the origins of our
Order and to pass it down to all generations of the Faithful, to enlighten
them and brind them in to harmony with Ardaugh.
 
Thus it is written, in the books I have given you, of the origins of our
land and of our race and of our faith and of our covenant and of our Order.
These I command, nay not I but Ardaugh and Maighal and the Solsheyderi,
that these words by kept and passed down to all generations to come, that
all the faithful of The Way may not be in darkness, but shall be
enlightened in the truth of the origins of our Faith.
 
May all who read these words receive the blessings of the Solshederi; may
all who keep and pass down these words receive the revelations of the
Archangel Maighal, Servant of the Most High; and may all who teach these
words and proclaim them to those in darkness attain Neamh, where they
shall be in complete and eternal harmony with Ardaugh and his minions
and his children! Luidh bi Ardaugh! Seadh!
