----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                             THE SOLSHEYDERI
                      The Third Book of Sheaynt Keophen
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
As it is written in the book of the Cued-Ashlagh, Ardaugh the Most High
sent his High Servant, the Archangel Maighal, unto the nine ancient
spiritualists who are the partriarchs of our faith, for they had worked
together in harmony and peace to invoke the presence of the one who brings
Order to the world, and their prayers were answered, with the first
great revelation, the holy name of the Most High.
 
In a short time after the day of the first revelation, the archangel appeared
again unto the nine and instructed them to leave their home and go to an
island which he would show them. This they did, sailing to the island now
called Ella Solsheyderan, in the northeast archipelago of Khalakhor, where
the power of Ardaugh rules supreme.
 
The island to which they were lead was a crowning jewel in the creation
which Ardaugh had made, and the nine were overcome with praise for the
Most High at the natural wonders they saw there. The island they found
bloomed eternally with flowers of brilliant colors; the trees bore fruit
in all seasons; the grains grew plentiful in ordered rows though no one
plowed; cool springs of pure water cascaded into the sea; even the animals
lived in utmost harmony, the sheep slumbering with the wolf and the
songbirds with the serpent.
 
The nine said unto themselves, "Let us build an altar here in praise of
Ardaugh who created such a heavenly place!" But the archangel appeared
unto them and said, "Build nothing here, for nothing made by mortal hands
can surpass the beauty of what Ardaugh has created! Neither shall you
build a dwelling, but instead shall make your abode in the place I shall
show you.
 
And so the archangel lead them to a cave, though it was unlike any cave
ever seen before or since. The entrance to the cave was marked with
golden pillars, though not made by hands, but created in the beginning
as they were then with the most intricate of designs. Inside their abode
the walls were covered with jewels more perfect than any from the hands
of a jeweler; a small waterfall cascaded from the wall into a pool
filled with clear cool water; large gems glowed with the heat of fire, set
in the middle of the cave floor which was made of gold as smooth as ice;
and beds of lush green vines sprang up each evening and withered away
each morning. All of this, the archangel told them, is as it was
created, unseen and untouched by mortal eyes and hands, prepared for
them since the beginning of time.
 
Here in this paradise the nine lived in seclusion from the outside world,
abiding in harmony and growing in wisdom and faith. The archangel
appeared daily, revealing great mysteries and teaching them of the
new Way in which they were to live, in adoration of Ardaugh and obedience
to his High Servant. He taught them the ancient rites and canticles which
were to be used in worship of Ardaugh, and revealed to them mediations
which increased their harmony with the Most High and with each other.
 
It came to pass that the archangel appeared to the nine one day proclaiming,
"Behold! The time has come for you to fulfill your mission! Henceforth
you shall be called the Solsheyderi, for you have been chosen by Ardaugh,
and to you have been revealed great mysteries, and it is you whom the
Most High sends to proclaim The Way to your people!"
 
And with this, the Solsheyderi sailed from their beloved island and returned
to the village from whence they came. The people of the village marveled
and praised the Most High at the sight of the Solsheyderi, for they had
been gone many years and feared lost forever. And word spread quickly
that the Prophets of the Most High, the Solsheyderi of The Way, had returned
to their homeland to reveal the mysteries of the Most High to the people.
 
The Solsheyderi parted company, each traveling to the villages of the
elven peoples in the mountains and the plains and on the coasts and the
islands, proclaiming the mysteries the Archangel had instructed them to
reveal to the children of Ardaugh. Whenever they arrived at a new village,
they hailed all with the greeting, "The Harmony of Ardaugh be with you!"
There they would proclaim the teachings which had been given them by the
archangel, and those who sought enlightement were bound to the Covenant,
the mission with which the archangel had entrusted them.
 
And after tarrying a while in a village, and bringing a community of
disciples into the light of wisdom in the mysteries of Ardaugh, they would
ordain an elder, one who had shown great faith and enlightement, to guide
the community. After blessing the elder, and instructing the faithful to
obey him as they would obey the Solsheyder, the prophet would leave the
village and travel to another. It was then that Solsheyder Argante came
to the island of Ella Erin, and upon her departure, ordained me, Keophen,
as elder of the disciples on Ella Erin. And thus dozens of communities of
The Way were founded, and the faith spread across the elven lands in the
years of the travels of the Solsheyderi.
 
Thus is the story of the Solsheyderi, and how they were taken to the
holy isle and received instruction; and how they returned unto their
people and enlightened them in the mysteries of Ardaugh; and how the
faith grew quickly amongst the elven people, those who had been created
by Ardaugh in the beginning.
