----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                            THE CEUD-ASHLAGH
                    The Second Book of Sheaynt Keophen
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
As is written in the book of the Toiseach, our homeland and our elven race
was created from the disharmony and confusion of the vortex by the power
of Ardaugh the Most High, who set his creation into motion and gave it over
to our first ancestors to rule and maintain the harmony he had granted,
though he did not reveal himself to his creation, and so our ancient
ancestores lived in darkness of the knowledge of him who had made them.

 
As eons passed, the people began to grow in their wonderment of all
that was around them, of the beauty and harmony and happiness of the
paradise in which they lived, and began to realize that such as this
must have been created and ordered by a great power, as such harmony
could not come from confusion.
 
And so they began to attempt to commune with this deity, whom they
called The Most High, knowing nothing of him, but deeply desiring that
their creator would reveal himself to them, so that they might adore
him and ask his continued blessings and reveal unto them the mysteries
of the universe. They created songs and rites, ordered ceremonies
and canticles which they believed would attract the attention of the
Most High and bring them closer to him.
 
As time passed, some came to spend their entire lives in their endeavor
to commune with the Most High of whom they new nothing, but of whom they
desired to know much. These spiritualists were often lone practicioners,
hermits in the mountains and isles, believing they would find communion
with the Most High within themselves.
 
But it came to pass that nine of these early spiritualists, from all walks
of life, began to believe that solitary efforts were not sufficient, and
that only a group working in harmony with each other could reach the
transcendant heights. This was after all the pattern which the Most High
had revealed to them through his creation; how all, though unique, lived
and worked in harmony for the paradise to thrive.
 
And so the nine came together and dwelt in a small coastal village. Here
they built for themselves a stone house where they would live together
in harmony and develop their rites and canticles of invocation of the
Most High. Rising early each day, they gathered together for meditations
and singing in communion with each other, their prayers and canticles
blending together in unison as one invocation of praise to the Most High.
 
And it came to pass one morning, while they were gathered together, that
a blinding light filled the room while they sang, and behold a great
angel appeared before them. He wore a long white robe and the locks upon
his head were as rings of gold; he held a trumpet in his hand and he shone
with the brilliance of the sun. The nine fell down on their faces
before the angel, in terror of the being who had entered their presence.
 
And the angel said to them, "The Harmony of the Most High be with you!
Do not be afraid, for I have been sent in answer to your invocations!
Rise and be filled with the Peace of the Most High!" And immediately
their fears vanished, and they arose filled with a great peace and
comfort, and shouted in unison "Praised be the Most High!"
 
The angel spoke unto them again saying, "Behold, I am Maighal the High
Servant of the One you invoke! I have been sent to reveal unto you
great mysteries with which you will enlighten the world! But first
there is something that is required of you!"
 
And the nine said in unison, "Oh tell us great servant, what is it that
the Most High desires of us?" And the angel replied, "That you should
worship him with your very beings, and that you should give yourself in
obedience to the High Servant he has sent unto you, and that you should
live in harmony with each other and with all of his creation, that you
would become beacons of light to the whole world! With you the Most High
desires to make a Covenant to which you will be bound, you and all who
seek the light which you shall bring, that you shall be his people and
I shall be your shepherd!"
 
And the nine bowed down before the angel and proclaimed, "Let it be done
to us as you have said! We bind ourselves to the Covenant which you
offer!" And so the angel raised his hand and the nine were filled with
the power of the Most High, and were bound to the Covenant which they
had made with his High Servant. They arose in unison before the angel
and praised the Most High whose power flowed through them.
 
And the angel spoke again saying, "To you shall be revealed many mysteries,
and this is the first; that the one you invoke, of whom you and your kind
know nothing, who created you and all which you have seen, wishes you to know
his glorious name which has been hidden from mortals since time began; the
name which you shall call him by, the name at which all shall bow in
obedience; and that name is ARDAUGH, who brings order to the world, and
who has created all you have seen, and who is called the Most High!" And
the nine raised their hands and in unison and shouted, "Praised be Ardaugh
the Most High, and his High Servant Maighal!" With this the angel disappeared
from amongst them and the blinding light vanished.
 
And the word spread througout the village of the great events which had
taken place in their midst, and all praised the name of Ardaugh the
Most High and Maighal his High Servant. And since that time the village
has been called Baile Ashlagh, the Village of the Revelation, for it
was here that the archangel first appeared to the nine and made his
first revelation unto them, the revelation of the name of the Most High.
 
Thus is the beginning of our faith and of the Way, of how the nine
gathered together and in unision invoked the name of the Most High, and
of how the archangel Maighal appeared unto them, and of how the Covenant
was established, which continues forever and ever.
