----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                             THE ASCENSION
                      The Fourth Book of Sheaynt Keophen
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
As it is written in the book of the Solsheyderi, the nine who were chosen
and enlightened and sent out by Maighal, the High Servant of Ardaugh, brought
the faith in The Way to the villages of our land, establishing communities
of disciples and ordaining elders for each, of which I Keophen was chosen
for my village of Ella Erin.
 
As the Solsheyderi aged, they returned to the village from whence they came,
the village of Baile Ashalgh, and there continued their mission though they
had ended their travels. They continued to teach the faith to all who would
come, and appointed and instructed the elders of the communities which they
had founded.
 
It became the custom of the Solsheyderi to ascend a high mountain which
overlooked the village, to pray and commune with Ardaugh and receive
revelations from the archangel. None other dared ascend the mountain,
for it had been consecrated as holy ground, where only those in the
perfect holiness of harmony could tread. The Solshederi often ascended
the mount in the mornings, and returned in the evenings, filled with the
power of harmony and blessing the peoples who came to watch their descent.

 
It came to pass that one morning the Solsheyderi ascended the mountain as
usual, amidst the crowds of pilgrims who passed through daily to catch
a glimpse of the prophets of Ardaugh. But that evening, the Solshederi
failed to return. Darkness fell upon the land and no sign of life came
from the holy mount. The villagers began a vigil, lighting fires and
singing canticles in honor of Ardaugh, beseeching the archangel to return
their masters to them, but none appeared.
 
Then in the midst of the darkness, the crowds looked upon a great light
which shone about the summit of the holy mount. The light grew brighter
and brighter, until it seemed a star sat atop the precipice. It filled
the sky with bright blue lights, and few could bear to cast their gaze
upon the burning sign. People in the villages and those all around fell
to their knees and watched the mountain's top as they could, wondering
what great event must be occurring there. And then the great star rose
slowly from the mount and hovered over the land, filling the sky with
brilliant light. Comets streaked across the sky and billowing clouds
formed an enormous circle around the star. And then in a flash, the
star streaked into the heavens and disappeared, and all fell dark and
quiet again.
 
Dawn broke and the people saw no evidence of the great signs they had seen
in the night, nor were there any signs of the Solsheyderi. Some became
fraught with despair, fearing some mishap had occurred with the prophets;
most were confused, and offered up prayers and canticles to Ardaugh for
help. Yet there were a few who held out hope that these portents were
not ominious omens, but great signs of power and of hope.
 
And that night, with the vigil lights still burning and the canticles
continuing to rise on high, a great sign appeared in the village. A
bright light burst forth in the midst of the great gathering cloud,
and from the light appeared the nine, clothed in brilliance, larger
than life and beaming with power. The crowds immedatiely fell on the
ground in fear, many screaming in terror.
 
But the nine began to speak in unison, saying, "The Harmony of Ardaugh be
with you! Do not be afraid, for we bring you great tidings!" And with
this, the crowd settled and were overcome with peace and harmony. And
the nine spoke again saying, "Behold, the servants of the Servant of
Ardaugh have been taken into Neamh, the abode of Ardaugh and his
minions! We have been granted this, the greatest gift of all!" And
with this, the crowds began shouting and praising the Most High.

 
"We have been taken into perfect harmony with Ardaugh, and have been
granted great power and wisdom! The great star which you saw upon the
mount in the night sky was our final enlightement, where Ardaugh himself
appeared to us, and embraced us with this his greatest gift! But fear not,
for we shall be with you always, as we will continue throughout all time,
the Servants of the Servant of Ardaugh!"
 
"And this you shall do: you shall invoke our names in your canticles
and prayers, and we shall present your petitions to the High Servant
of Ardaugh, and he shall present them to the Most High, and your
petitions will be heard!"
 
"Go now, and summon the elders of all the communities of the disciples,
for upon the mountain in nine days we shall reveal a great mystery
unto the faithful! Prasied be Ardaugh the Most High forever!" And with
this, the Solsheyderi disappeared, and with them the blinding light,
and the people marveled and praised Ardaugh and his High Servant and
the Solsheyderi for what they had witnessed.
 
And so word was sent throughout the lands to the elders of the communites,
though some began to worry, as the remotest of communities were weeks
travel away, and wondered how they would complete the task of gathering
the elders within nine days. The elders who were present ordered a great
vigil to begin, one of preparation and cleansing for the great revelation
which would soon be revealed. And so the faithful built large bonfires, and
canticles of praise continued day and night until the time would be
fulfilled.
 
And then on the seventh day began the miraculous gathering. Elders from
the furthest villages and islands and the mountains began to arrive,
each with a story of how a great light had appeared to them and instructed
them to leave for Baile Ashlagh, many even before the Solsheyderi ascended
the mount for the last time. And one of these elders was I, Keophen of
Ella Erin, who had been chosen elder of Ella Erin by Solsheyder Argante
at the end of her stay on our island. And when the eighth day ended, all
the elders of The Way had assembled in the village, and many rites were
performed to culminate the great vigil.
