----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                             THE TOISEACH
                    The First Book of Sheaynt Keophen
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
I Keophen, first Seirsanach and Oracle of The Way of Ard-Rhian, write this
to you, the disciples of Ardaugh and his Archangel Maighal, that you be not
ignorant of the truth of the mysteries which were revealed to me by the
Archangel and the Solsheyderi, after their ascension into the Neahm.
 
In the beginning, the land was a vortex of confusion and disharmony, without
form and without purpose. The vortex twisted and blew as the winds of the
mightiest of storms, tearing and destroying anything which might bind
together, the powers of the Triad, of Ardaugh and of Balance and
of Chaos, the three great powers which rule the universe, struggling for
supremacy.
 
And it came to pass that each of the Triad gathered unto itself a portion
of the dust and created the lands which we know. Ardaugh, who is the
Most High, gathered unto himself the dust which was his, and created
the Paradise of Toiseach, that is, of the Beginning. In this paradise
the Most High created all that lives, all that moves and all that is
in the Toiseach. He created all things beautiful, and filled the land
with utter peace. All lived and existed in perfect harmony with all else.
 
In this Paradise of Toiseach, the Most High brought forth the race of
Elves and set them to rule over and be caretakers of all he had created,
to maintain the peace and harmony which he had granted the land, to
prosper and inhabit it, and bring forth its fruit. Having set all in
order and in motion, he ceased his act of creation and looked upon
the Paradise and was pleased, withdrawing into the Neahm to rest and
admire all he had made.
 
And it came to pass that the Elves did prosper and multiplied, and
inhabited the land given to them by Ardaugh, settling the mountains
and the plains and the coasts and the isles, bringing forth the fruits
of the land and living in harmony with one another and with all of
creation. And yet they knew nothing of the Triad, or of Ardaugh the
Most High who had created them and set them to live in the Toiseach, for
Ardaugh had not revealed himself unto them.
 
Thus came into being our homeland and our race, the Paradise of Toiseach,
from the dusts of disharmony, by the powder of Ardaugh the Most High.
