
----------------------------------------------------------------------
                       CANTICLES OF RHIAN OMOS
----------------------------------------------------------------------

I.    Glory be to he who holds the staff of wisdom! 
      May he guide me in my travels.

II.   Glory be to the verdant mother! 
      May her blessing heal my wounded soul.

III.  Glory be to the master of the flames! 
      May his power purify me as gold.

IV.   Glory be to conqueror of chaos! 
      May his courage strengthen mine.

V.    Glory be to the high priest of Ardaugh! 
      May his blessings fall upon me.

      

VI.   Glory be to the princess of the heavens! 
      May her winds sail me to good fortune.

VII.  Glory be to the guardian of the night! 
      May his light lead me through darkness.

VIII. Glory be to the lord of smiths! 
      May he mold me in the image of goodness.

IX.   Glory be to the mistress of the forest! 
      May she protect me from the danger within.

X.    Glory be to the Archangel of Ardaugh! 
      May his words bring order to the world.

XI.   All glory and praise to Ardaugh the Most High! 
      It is a privilege to praise him.


      
This book of canticles may be used by anyone who wishes to pay homage 
to those worshipped by the Order of Sean-Rhian. The worshipper 
will need ten sticks of incense and a pure heart to properly perform 
the rite.

The worshipper should begin by cleansing himself with a sprinkle of
holy water from the font of the kirk. He or she should then proceed
into the sanctuary to honor each of those portrayed in the windows. 
To pay homage to each, place a lit stick of incense on the pedestal 
before the window and chant the appropriate canticle, found on the
preceeding pages. The Archangel should be similarly honored, placing
the burning incense on the floor.

Finally, the worshipper should proceed to the central altar and chant
the final canticle in honor of Ardaugh. All who are on the path of 
holiness who pay such homage shall be blessed.

The canticles are usually prayed once each quarter-day.

