----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                              ASHLISH OSSIAN
                         The Revelation to Ossian
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
I Ossian, Oracle of The Way, Voice of the Solsheyderi, Savant of the
Archangel, and Servant of the Most High, greet you beloved child of The Way,
and write to you concerning these revelations given unto me, that you may
be enlightened with the wisdom of the mysteries which are here proclaimed
by me, which shall bring you into ever increasing Harmony with the Most High.
 
As was my custom, I climbed the holy mount, and there prayed for guidance
and wisdom from the Most High, that the will of the Most High be revealed
unto me, that I may enlighten my brothers and sisters. And an angel of
the Most High appeared unto me and proclaimed, "Hail Ossian, chosen
Oracle of The Way! I have been sent to take you on a journey, on which
great mysteries shall be revealed to you!" And the angel held in her hand
the Keys of Wisdom, which she held tightly to her breast. And I was
immediately caught up in the spirit, and left my body, and ascended with
the angel into the heights of glory, and there I saw these signs.
 
In the heavens appeared the sun, bright and glorious with the power of
the Most High, its rays beaming with light in all directions from its
center. And upon the face of the sun appeared the holy icon, the Tricircum,
of which the Most High is the utmost. And the angel knelt before the
sun in its radiance, with the image of the holy icon upon its face,
and adored the sun with the prayers of supplication. And she prayed that
wisdom might be granted unto me, and a voice from the heavens announced,
"Your prayers I hear my child! To those who are worthy and pray for
wisdom it shall be granted!" With this the sun faded out, and the angel
arose and returned to me. This was the first sign revealed unto me by
the angel.
 
I was taken in the spirit by the angel to another place, and there saw
a second sign in the heavens. Behold there were nine stars in the sky,
which circled about the sun and the moon. And the stars joined with the
moon in paying homage to the sun. The glory of the sun shown forth upon
the earth, and behold, the earth brought fourth nine fruits, each of a
particular kind. And then the nine stars beamed with glory and proclaimed,
"Great is the sun who brings forth fruit from the earth!"
 
And then I saw the stars fall from the sky upon the fruits, one to each
kind, and they transformed the fruits into beacons of light, each burning
with its own hue according to the natures of the fruits. And then the
stars streaked from the earth in an arc as comets, creating a rainbow
in the heavens, each taking the hue of the beacons which had been left
upon the earth, and once again encircled the moon and the sun.
 
And then the angel took flight, and gathered the beacons from the earth,
and returned unto me and said, "Behold, the gifts of the earth which
have been brought forth by the sun and bear the image of the stars!
They are the works of the hands of the children of the sun, and shine
forth in praise to the stars their elder brethren!"
 
And then I was taken into the heavens by the angel, where the sun shone
above me, and the moon before me, and the stars encircled about me. And
the angel offered the beacons to the stars with canticles of praise, to each
its own, and the stars shone brightly at her homage, and the moon witnessing
danced for joy at the praise of its children, and the sun shone ever more
brightly overhead as the angel sang, bathing all in the radiant power
of its light. And when the angel had offered the beacon and canticle
of praise the the last of the stars, the constellation in unison
encircled the angel and bathed her in their light, for she had given
praise unto them. After this, the angel returned unto me, and the
sun, moon and stars faded in the heavens. This is the second sign
revealed to me by the angel.
 
I was taken once more by the angel to another place, a place of great
height, enshrouded in the mist of mystery, the voices of the sea of
humanity crashing below us. At this place there burned nine pillars of
fire that encircled about me. And behold a sign appeared in the
heavens, a radiant creature, which had the wings of eagles, with a golden
crown upon its head, and a mighty trumpet in its hand, and the Book of
Wisdom cradled in its arm, and wore on its shoulders the yoke of a slave.
It descended from the heavens, and took its place within the circle
of fire. And I saw written upon its head, "The High Servant of the Most
High." And the creature blew its trumpet, proclaiming the glory of the
Most High, and behold from the earth sprang nine trees before the pillars
of fire, each of its own kind, and the pillars burned brightly with joy
at the rising of the trees.
 
And then the trees cast themselves down upon the earth, encircled by the
nine pillars of fire, before the creature who rules the heavens. And
the angel with me began to sing to the honor and glory of the creature
in the heavens, and the pillars of fire joined in, chanting, "Praised
be the Most High, who brings the fires of heaven to perfect the earth!"
And then the angel took flight and arrived before the trees upon the
earth, encircled by the pillars of fire and the creature who rules. And
she raised her hands, and there made an invocation of purification.
And heeding her invocation, the creature raised its hand, and a great
ball of fire fell from the heavens upon the trees and burned them upon
the earth. And when the fire was gone there was left a pile of ash upon
the earth which filled the entire world with a heavenly aroma pleasing
unto the creature.
 
And then the angel went forth and gathered the ashes from the earth
and returned to me saying, "Behold, the prayers of the children of the
Most High, which have been cleansed in the fires of purity, and which
are pleasing to the creature who rules the heavens, the great servant
of the Most High!" And she placed the ashes in a silver bowl, and ascended
into the heavens where the creature now stood before a throne. She knelt
before the creature, and placing the bowl at its feet, glorified the
creature with his glorious name, which is known to all the faithful, as
the prayers of the children of the most high rose from the bowl like smoke
and enveloped the creature standing before the throne.
 
And the creature in the heavens was pleased with the glorification and
prayers offered by the angel, and pronounced with a loud voice, "Blessed
are those who pay homage to the one who rules the heavens, the great
servant of the Most High, for they shall receive wisdom and harmony!"
And with this the angel returned unto me, and the signs in the heavens
and upon the earth faded away. This is the third sign which was revealed
unto me by the angel.
 
I was taken a last time to a heavenly place by the angel, where there
were nine elders who encircled me, and the great servant who stood
before me, and in their midst was a throne, upon which sat the presence
of the Most High, and before the throne an altar of worship. Angels appeared
and brought forth a golden cup and a golden platter, and placed them
on the earth before all mankind, and then returned into the heavens.
 
Then servant and the elders began to sing to the glory of the One who sat
upon the throne, and behold there arose from the earth heavenly creatures,
as numerous as the stars. To them was given the wings of the eagle, and the
skill of the mason, and the stab of the dagger. They filled the heavens
in great number, their constant chant a drone of praise to the Most High.
And the inhabitants of the earth hid themselves in fear of the heavenly
creatures, for their daggers were poisoned and their patience thin, as
they were quick to anger. And the creatures began to sing and work in
concert, and brought forth from the earth ambrosia and nectar, which
they placed upon the earth before all mankind. Having bestowed their
gifts upon the earth, the heavenly creatures returned unto the crystal
palace in the heavens which they had made in honor of the Most High.
 
And then the angel with me took flight and descended unto the earth. She
gathered the vessels and the gifts which had been left upon the earth,
and returned unto me. She held forth the nectar and the ambrosia saying,
"Behold the fruits of the earth, brought forth by the power of the
Most High by the creatures he has made!" She then held forth the vessels,
saying, "Behold the holy vessels consecrated unto the Most High, marked
with the sign of holiness, for only they are worthy to receive his gifts!"
And with that, she placed the fruits of the earth within the holy vessels,
and ascending to the altar before the throne, placed there that which she
had gathered from the earth. She then began to proclaim to the one who sat
upon the throne, of her offering which she had brought, which the earth had
produced and she had gathered, and of her eternal praise for the one who sat
upon the throne. Three proclamations she made before the altar, as are known
by all the faithful.
 
And behold, a great light shone forth from the One who sat upon the
throne, and with a great voice the Most High pronounced, "Blessed are
you, my child, for in this offering you show yourself my follower!" And
the servant and the elders and the angel fell down before the throne
and worshipped the One who sat there with praise and song. And then
the signs began to fade in the heavens and upon the earth, and the
angel returned unto me. This was the fourth sign which was revealed
unto me by the angel.
 
After this the angel took me back to the place where my journey had
started, where I re-entered my slumbering mortal body. And when I awoke
the angel was there, still embracing the Keys of Wisdom to her breast.
She spoke to me and said, "To you have been revealed great mysteries.
All who are children of the Most High must be enlightened with these.
Thus remember all you have seen, and write it down, so that all who
follow The Way may know how to give praise and glory to The Nine, and
to the High Servant, and to the Most High, that the divine ones shall
know who is truly their follower." Having said this, she gave unto me
the Keys of Wisdom which she had carried throughout the journey, and
upon receiving them, I saw and understood all clearly, and remembered it
all, even the last detail. And then the angel smiled and said to me,
"Thus you know you are a child of the Most High, and his chosen Oracle!"
With this she left me.
 
I write all this to you, beloved follower of The Way, that you may not
be ignorant of the great mysteries revealed to your forefathers through
me, Ossian the Oracle of the Way, Voice of the Solsheyderi, Savant of
the Archangel and Servant of the Most High.
