----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                          Epiphany of the Shamrock
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
       ____       It came to pass that one day St. Keophen gathered his
      /    \      pupils around him, and lead them to the bank of a stream
    __\____/__    beneath a great oak tree, and there ordered them to sit.
   /    \/    \   He then gave them a scroll to read, a scroll containing
   \____/\____/   the Parable of the Master Smith which he had written. He
                  instructed them to read this, and to ponder its meaning.
 
Having done as their master bade them, the pupils wondered at the reading,
and asked, "What teaching does this writing bring to us, master?" The
master asked, "Where do you see the power of Order in this parable?"
The pupils answered, "It is the third staff which was beautiful and
strong, and rang as a great bell when struck." And the master then
asked, "And what did the apprentice learn must be done in order to forge
the superior staff?" To this the pupils answered, "That he must use
the fire of heat to melt the two metals into one stronger, and have
patience in cooling it to forge the strongest staff."
 
At this the master said, "You have learned well, my children. And here is
the meaning of this parable. There exists in this world three great powers,
Order, Balance and Chaos, the powers of the Triad. We believe that Order
is the superior, that all which reaches the perfection of Order is the
strongest and most beautiful and most peaceful."
 
"And yet there are times when we must use the powers of Chaos to disrupt
an Order which is inferior, just as the apprentice used the destructive
heat of the fires to disfigure and melt the two metals to combine them
into one metal which would cast the superior staff."
 
"And there are times when we must use the powers of Balance to control
the transition of Chaos to Order, so that a more perfect and harmonious
Order may be attained, just as the apprentice used patience in cooling
the metal of the superior staff. Thus whatever the means, we must bring
the world into a more perfect harmony and unity of Order, even if this
means using Chaos and Balance to achieve it."
 
The master then plucked a shamrock from the ground, a three-leaf clover,
and presented it to the pupils, saying, "When you see this bountiful
herb, remember the wisdom which you have received today; for it has
three leaves reminding us of the Triad, the top leaf the desirable power
of Order, and the lower two the inferior though necessary powers of
Balance and Chaos. You and your descendants shall reap many blessings
from this tiny plant."
 
The master then took a stick, and drawing in the sand of the bank of the
stream, made three interlocked circles, similar in shape to the shamrock.
He said, "Let this symbol which I have drawn, reminiscent of the shamrock
which teaches you wisdom, be the symbol of your endeavors and a reminder
to you of what you have learned. The Tricircum you shall call it, and
this emblem you will tie about your neck in remembrance of your oath
and your search to find the perfect harmony and unity in Order."
 
With this, the master St. Keophen arose and returned to his monastery with
his enlightened pupils, one of whom has set this story in writing for
future generations to read.
