----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Parable of the Master Smith
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
On a dark and cloudy day, Solsheyder Sechsanach gathered his disciples
about him in his forge and there related to them this parable:
 
A wise master smith once summoned his young apprentice and commanded him,
"Take these two metals which I give you, and make for me a staff of great
strength and beauty."  And the apprentice took the metals, and with his mallot
he beat one into a long staff, and with the other he made fine decorative
adornments and molded them to the staff.  He brought the ornate staff to his
master and presented it to him.
 
The master took the staff, and striking it against a great rock, broke the
staff, its adornments falling away.  The master said to his apprentice, "See
how weak, though beautiful, this staff is that you have made for me.  The
metals are not united, and do not work in harmony with one another, and so
when great trauma is brought to them, they do not stand.  Take these remnants
and try this again."
 
 
 
 
And so the apprentice gathered the fragments of the broken staff, and
returned to his forge.  There he used a great fire, and placing all the
pieces of both metals together, melted them into one metal composed of both.
With this, he formed a staff, and when he was satisfied with its shape, he
plunged it into a barrel of water, which let off great hisses of steam, and
the staff cooled and held its shape.  With his tools the apprentice sculpted
and adorned the staff, and brought it to his master, and presented it.
 
The master then took the second staff, and striking it against a great
rock, the staff cracked and shattered into pieces. The master said to his
apprentice, "You have combined the metals to make them work in harmony,
and this staff is stronger than the last, but in your haste you plunged
the hot metal into the cool waters, and the metal cooled too fast, and
the pattern of its unity was not harmonious, and thus the staff did not
withstand the test. Take these pieces and try this again."
 
A third time the apprentice gathered the pieces of the shattered staff and
went to his forge, where he once again melted them together. And with the
hot metal he formed an ornate staff. And when he was satisfied with its form,
he set the hot staff aside and let it cool for a day. The next day he took
the staff and presented it to his master.
 
 
The master took the staff, and striking it against a great rock, the staff
rang out as a bell, and vibrated in the hands of the master, but kept its
integrity. The master smiled at his apprentice and said, "Well done my son.
You have used fire to destroy the metals I gave you, and mixed them to
form a stronger metal; with excellence and pride you formed the staff into
a beautiful piece of art; and with patience you allowed the staff to cool,
allowing the metals time to form a perfect harmony with each other; and
thus you present me with a great work of beauty and strength."
 
Having said this to his disciples, one of them asked, "Solsheyder, what
are we to make of this parable which you have given us?" Sechsanach
reached down and plucked a shamrock from the grassy ground, and
holding it before them, he slowly pointed at each of the three leaves, first
the lower two, and then the upper, and then said to them, "It relates a great
mystery of The Way. He who understands shall be enlightened." And with
this, he dismissed his disciples.
