The Bandits Lair. Proposed Map.
Casimir, March 1999.


          
	    	
     11	 store_inventory 	
       \ /
   10 - 9
        |
        8
        |
        7          4
	v	 /
	6 - 5 - 3 
		|	
		2
		|
		1
		|
		B
		^
		A 


A - The base of a cliff along some path or other. Climbing the cliff
    (requiring decent climbing skill) will lead to B.

B - A ledge along the cliff where some large bushes have managed to
    grow. The bushes conceal the stout entrance to a cave. Tall
    inviduals may have to to stoop to enter.

1 - The small mouth of the cave.

2 - Passage which widens (and becomes taller) as one progresses along
    it.

3 - Large Cavern.

4 - Dead end of Large Cavern.

5 - Large Cavern.

6 - Top level of the large cavern ends at a cliff face, which leads
    down to a stream, below. A rope ladder leads down, and a platform
    can be found to allow one to lower ones equipment down , as well.

7 - Base of the rope ladder/platform. 7 concealed bandits guard this
    location. A stream runs along the ground here. As one enters
    the chamber, the bandits reveal themselves. There will be 3
    "thieves" and 3 "thugs" here, and one who can be considered
    lieutenant level figure. This later will welcome friends of
    the bandits, allowing them to pass further into the cavern.
 
    Individuals known to be unfriendly to the bandits will be 
    attacked on sight. Individuals whom the bandits do not know
    will be questioned regarding their intent:

    The bandit asks: "What are you doing here?" You get the impression
    that he wishes you to RESPOND to his question with a single
    word.

    Any of a number of standard responses will allow one to head
    further into the cave. Other responses will illicit only a
    stony-glare, and an order to be gone. Individuals who do not
    respond appropriatly within a given length of time (2 minutes
    seems reasonable) will be attacked.

    Should the bandits attack, one of the thieves will head north,
    to "warn" the rest of the group. The thugs and lieutenant
    will engage individuals in melee, concentrating on foes who
    seem most easily struck down first. (Probably a check for
    defence skill). They will use their specials to best effect,
    but will flee if reduced to a BAD SHAPE or worse. They will
    not allow any to pass while fighting them. The two thieves
    who remain will not engage in melee, but will shoot crossbow
    bolts at their foes at regular intervals, for devestating
    results. The other bandits will prevent anyone from attacking
    those thieves, as long as they do not flee. The thieves flee
    if engaged in melee. Fleeing bandits all end up at 9.

    The bandits will lower the platform (and anything placed on
    it) to this level, for friends only.

8 - Along the stream. I may conceal two thieves who will backstab
    enemies who fought their way past 7, then flee to 9.

9 - Main bandit camp. A large cavern, with a fissure in the ceiling
    allow the egress of smoke from the campfire. I would say
    about 16 bandits would be here, mostly human, with perhaps
    an elf or two, led by a leader who will give out the quest,
    if approached about how they can help him, etc.

    Players may purchase food from the the bandits (there is some 
    meat roasting over the fire), though
    the price will be exhorbitant. The bandits will not willingly
    part with their limited supplies of alcohol. ;)

    The bandits will not allow access to 10, or 11. Enemies who
    make it as far as this cavern face almost certain death, as 
    the bandits will not allow any one to leave until several
    of their number are slain.

    There is also a "shopkeeper" here, who will deal with PCs
    who are known to be friendly, allowing them to sell the
    goods stolen from the elvish patrols. The inventory for
    the shop is store_inventory. (naturally)

10  Supply room. Supplies useful to the bandits (specifically,
    food and drink - maybe some other trinkets) are kept here. 

11  Should anything like my proposed hostage quest be coded, this
    alcove of the cavern is where the hostage will be kept.

store_inventory - Will actually be accessible to players who 
	can fight their way into it. Attacking the burly
	shopkeeper will result in the players being forced
	into cave9 where they will be set upon by the whole
	troop of bandits. Not recommended if you want a high
	life expectancy. 

	Since players can obtain the store inventory, it will be
	limited to ten items at a time. (The bandits have quick
	turn around times for the goods they buy).
 
	
          
    








