                                                         

VIRAL HEPATITIS

The termVIRAL HEPATITIS is usually used to describe infections caused by agents whose primary tissue tropism is the liver.
To date, at least five hepatitis viruses have been recognised and these have been named:- 
Hepatitis A, B, C, D and E.
Acute hepatitis may also occur as part of the clinical course of a number of viral infections, including
human cytomegalovirus, Epstein-Barr virus, herpes simplex virus, yellow fever virus and rubella. 


Clinical Features 

Hepatitis due to all these viruses presents clinically in a very similar fashion, especially during the acute phase of the illness. Thus a specific diagnosis can only be made in the laboratory. 
The majority of infections are totally asymptomatic, but common clinical features include: anorexia, nausea, vomiting, right upper quadrant pain and raised liver enzymes AST and ALT .  Jaundice is the hall mark of infection, but tends to develop late. Anicteric cases are also very common. 

ENTERICALLY TRANSMITTED HEPATITIS: A  and E   

PARENTERALLY TRANSMITTED HEPATITIS B  , C  and D   

Hepatitis A - "Infectious Hepatitis"

Caused by a picornavirus, Enterovirus 72
This is a small, un-enveloped icosahedral particle, 27 nm in diameter, containing a ssRNA genome

Clinical Features
Incubation period 3-5 weeks (mean 28 days)
Milder disease than Hepatitis B; asymptomatic infections are very common, especially in children.
Adults, especially pregnant women, may develop more severe disease.
Although convalescence may be prolonged, there is no chronic form of the disease. 

Complications: 
Fulminant hepatitis is rare: 0.1% of cases 

Pathogenesis
Virus enters via the gut; replicates in the alimentary tract and spreads to infect the liver, where it multiplies in hepatocytes.
Viraemia is transient. Virus is excreted in the stools for two weeks preceding the onset of symptoms. 

Epidemiology
World-wide distribution; endemic in most countries. The incidence in first world countries is declining. There is an especially high incidence in developing countries and rural areas.
In rural areas of South Africa , the seroprevalence is 100%. 

Transmission - Enteric
Large numbers of virus particles are excreted in stools, before the onset of symptoms.


1) Case-to-case, via faecal-oral route. 
Outbreaks in creches are very common. 


2) Contamination of food or water with sewage 
Infected food handlers 
Shell fish grown in sewage-polluted water 
Diagnosis
Virus cannot be cultured in vitro from clinical material, and diagnosis is made on the presence of
HAV-specific IgM in the patient's blood.

                                                                                                 

Prevention
1) Passive immunisation - 

Normal immunoglobulin given to: 
Travellers to third world countries 
Household contacts of acute cases 


2) Active Immunization
Inactivated cell culture-derived vaccine has recently become available; not in general use 




Hepatitis E

Recently identified cause of enterically transmitted non-A, non-B (NANB) hepatitis

Calicivirus
spherical, non enveloped, 27-34 nm particles containing a ssRNA genome. 

Clinical Features
Incubation period 30-40 days
Acute, self limiting hepatitis, no chronic carrier state
Age: predominantly young adults, 15-40 years 

Complications
Fulminant hepatitis in pregnant women. Mortality rate is high (up to 40%). 

Pathogenesis
Similar to hepatitis A; virus replicates in the gut initially, before invading the liver, and virus is shed in the stool prior to the onset of symptoms.
Viraemia is transient. A large inoculum of virus is needed to establish infection. 

Epidemiology
Little is known yet. The incidence of infection appears to be low in first world countries. 

1) Large outbreaks have been described in India, Mexico and North Africa where the source of infection is usually gross faecal contamination of drinking water supplies.
2) Case-to-case transmission to household contacts appears to be uncommon. This suggests that a large inoculum is needed to establish infection. 

The incidence of infection in South Africa is unknown. 

Diagnosis
No routine laboratory tests are available as yet. Virus cannot be cultured in vitro. 

1) Calicivirus-like particles in the stool, by electron microscopy
2) Specific IgM in serum
3) PCR HEV-specific sequences in stool 




PARENTERALLY TRANSMITTED HEPATITIS
B, C and D






Hepatitis B



Hepadna virus 
42nm Virions (also known as "Dane particles") contain a circular dsDNA genome 

HBV Antigens 
HBsAg = surface (coat) protein

produced in excess as small spheres and tubules 
HBcAg = inner core protein 
HBeAg = secreted protein; function unknown 
Click here to see diagram and electron micrographs of the virus 

Clinical Features
Incubation period 2 - 5 months
Insidious onset of symptoms. Tends to cause a more severe disease than Hepatitis A.
Asymptomatic infections occur frequently. 

Pathogenesis
Infection is parenterally transmitted. The virus replicates in the liver and virus particles, as well as excess viral surface protein, are shed in large amounts into the blood. Viraemia is prolonged and the  blood of infected individuals is highly infectious. 

Complications
1) Persistant infection:-
Following acute infection, approximately 5% of infected individuals fail to eliminate the virus completely and become persistantly infected. 

Those who are at particular risk include: 
babies, young children 
immunocompromised patients 
males > females 
The virus persists in the hepatocytes and on-going liver damage occurs because of the host immune response against the infected liver cells. 

Chronic infection may take one of two forms:


•Chronic persistent Hepatitis - the virus persists, but there is minimal liver damage 

•Chronic Active Hepatitis - There is aggressive destruction of liver tissue and rapid progression to cirrhosis or liver failure. 



2) Patients who become persistently infected are at risk of developing hepatocellular carcinoma.
HBV is thought to play a role in the development of this malignancy because: 
a) 80% of patients with HCC are carriers of hepatitis B 
b) Virus DNA can be identified in hepatocellular carcinoma cells. 
c) Virus DNA can integrate into the host chromosome 
3) Fulminant Hepatitis
Rare; accounts for 1% of infections. 

Epidemiology

Prevalence of disease in South Africa
Parenterally transmitted 


1) Blood: 
Blood transfusions, serum products, 
sharing of needles, razors 
Tattooing, acupuncture 
Renal dialysis 
Organ donation 

•2) Sexual intercourse 


•3) Horizontal transmission in children, families, 'close personal contact' 




4) Vertical transmission - perinatal transmission from a carrier mother to her baby 
transplacental (rare) 
during delivery 
post natal , ??breast feeding , ??close contact 



Diagnosis:  Serology

A. Acute infection with resolution  

                                                                                                         Viral antigens:
1) Surface antigen (HBsAg) is secreted in excess into the blood as 22 nm spheres and tubules. Its presence in serum indicates that virus replication is occurring in the liver
2) 'e' antigen (HBeAg) secreted protein is shed in small amounts into the blood. Its presence in serum indicates that a high level of viral replication is occurring in the liver
3) core antigen (HBcAg) core protein is not found in blood

Antibody response:
1) Surface antibody (anti-HBs) becomes detectable late in convalescence, and indicates immunity following infection. It remains detectable for life and is not found in chronic carriers (see below). 
2) e antibody (anti-HBe) becomes detectable as viral replication falls. It indicates low infectivity in a carrier. 
3) Core IgM  rises early in infection and indicates recent infection 
4) Core IgG  rises soon after IgM, and remains present for life in both chronic carriers as well as those who clear the infection. Its presence indicates exposure to HBV. 

B. Serology of the chronic carrier

                                                                                                         




Prevention 

1) Active Immunization 

Two types of vaccine are available:

serum derived - prepared from s Ag purified from the serum of HBV carriers 
Recombinant sAg - made by genetic engineering in yeasts 




Three doses should be administered to people at high risk of infection with HBV: 
1) Health care workers 
2) Sexual partners of chronic carriers 
3) Infants of HBV carrier mothers 
?? Universal Immunisation 


2) Passive Antibody 
Hepatitis B immune globulin should be administered to non immune individuals following single episode exposure to HBV-infected blood.
For example: needlestick injuries 




Hepatitis C

The major cause of parenterally transmitted non A non B hepatitis. It eluded identification for many years. In 1989, the genome was cloned from the serum of an infected chimpanzee.

Virology 

Putative Togavirus related to the Flavi and Pesti viruses.
Thus probably enveloped.
Has a ssRNA genome
Does not grow in cell culture, but can infect Chimpanzees 

Clinical Features 

Incubation period 6-8 weeks
Causes a milder form of acute hepatitis than does hepatitis B
But 50% individuals develop chronic infection, following exposure. 

Complications
1) Chronic liver disease
2) Hepatocellular carcinoma 

Epidemiology 

Incidence endemic world-wide; high incidence in Japan, Italy and Spain
In South Africa, 1% blood donors have antibodies 

Transmission 

•Blood transfusions, blood products 
•organ donation 
•Intravenous drug abusers 
•community acquired: mechanism unclear. ?Vertical transmission 
•?sexual intercourse 


Diagnosis 

1) Serology
Reliable serological tests have only recently become available.
HCV-specific IgG indicates exposure, not infectivity 

2) PCR detects viral genome in patient's serum 




Delta Agent

Defective virus which requires Hepatitis B as a helper virus in order to replicate. Infection therefore only occurs in patients who are already infected with Hepatitis B.

Clinial Features
Increased severity of liver disease in Hepatitis B carriers. 

Virology
virus particle 36 nm in diameter
encapsulated with HBsAg, derived from HBV
delta antigen is associated with virus particles
ssRNA genome 

Epidemiology
Identified in intra-venous drug abusers in Italy. Incidence in South Africa is unknown.


