NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH

Hepatitis C

What is hepatitis C?

Hepatitis C (formerly called non-A, non-B hepatitis) is a liver disease 
caused by a recently identified bloodborne virus. Other types of viral 
hepatitis include hepatitis A (formerly called infectious hepatitis), 
hepatitis B (serum hepatitis), hepatitis D (delta hepatitis) and hepatitis E 
(a virus transmitted through the feces of an infected person). Approximately 
200 cases of hepatitis C are reported in New York State each year.

Who gets hepatitis C?

Hepatitis C occurs most often in people who have received a blood transfusion 
orwho have shared needles.

How is the virus spread?

Like hepatitis B, hepatitis C is spread by exposure to blood from an infected 
person, such as through a blood transfusion or sharing needles. The risk of 
sexual transmission has not been thoroughly studied but appears to be small. 
There is no evidence that the hepatitis C virus can be transmitted by casual 
contact, through foods or by coughing or sneezing.

What are the symptoms?

Some people experience appetite loss, fatigue, nausea and vomiting, vague 
stomach pain and jaundice (a yellowing of the skin and whites of the eyes).

How soon do symptoms occur?

Symptoms may occur from two weeks to six months after exposure but usually 
within two months.

When and for how long is a person able to spread hepatitis C?

Some people carry the virus in their bloodstream and may remain contagious 
for years. The disease may occur in the acute form and be followed by recovery 
or it may become chronic and cause symptoms for years.

What is the treatment for hepatitis C?

There are no special medicines or antibiotics that can be used to treat people 
with the acute form of hepatitis C but the FDA has approved a drug called 
recombinant alpha interferon for treating people with chronic hepatitis C.

Is donated blood tested for this virus?

Since May 1990, blood donation centers throughout the U.S. have routinely 
used a blood donor screening test for hepatitis C. Widespread use of this test 
has significantly reduced the number of post-transfusion hepatitis C cases.

What are the possible consequences of hepatitis C?

Approximately 25percent of people infected with hepatitis C virus will become 
sick with jaundice or other symptoms of hepatitis. Fifty percent of these 
individuals may go on to develop chronic liver disease.

How can the spread of hepatitis C be prevented?

People who have had hepatitis C should remain aware that their blood and 
possibly other body fluids are potentially infective. Care should be taken to 
avoid blood exposure to others by sharing toothbrushes, razors, needles, etc. 
In addition, infected people must not donate blood and should inform their 
dental or medical care providers so that proper precautions can be followed.
The risk of sexual transmission of hepatitis C virus has not been thoroughly 
investigated but appears to be minimal. Several studies suggest that spread 
seldom occurs from people with chronic hepatitis C disease to their steady 
sexual partners. Therefore, limitations on sexual activity with steady 
partners may not be needed. However, people with acute illness and multiple 
sexual partners may be at greater risk and should use condoms to reduce the 
risk of acquiring or transmitting hepatitis C as well as other sexually 
transmitted infections.

Is there a vaccine for hepatitis C?

At the present time, a hepatitis C vaccine is not available. A safe and 
effective vaccine for hepatitis B is in widespread use in the U.S. and a new 
experimental vaccine for hepatitis A is undergoing clinical trials.
 