(keep in mind that this history will be made available to players
through books, conversations with NPCs, partial scrolls and other
hidden items and so forth. they will have to piece it together
for themselves)

The darklings are a race of dark beings, worshipping the God
of darkness. They are NOT, however, evil creatures. People
often mistake them for evil because they rival with the elves
of Telan-Ri, whom people commonly consider "good".

Long ago, the reach of the light illuminating from the ground, 
the rocks, everything began to stretch outward. The darklings, fearing
that they might be cut off from their darkness, fled to a far
corner of Emerald, a place they knew could sustain their precious
darkness.

Darklings from all over came to this last haven of uninterrupted
darkness. Here they built a city, though calling it a city is an
understatement and an insult. Despite their diminished size, their
power over magic, science, and their heightened intelligence allowed
them to create monumental structures of stone and marble. The architecture
was varying, with some buildings sporting a monolithic look, while others
showed off the intelligence and brilliance of the designers with amazing,
almost impossible-looking arrangements of supports and shaped, curved, and
even spherical walls.

In the center of the city, the darklings placed that which was most precious
to them - knowledge. In constrast to the striking architecture, artwork and
stonework surrounding the cneter of the city, the library was small, square,
and plain-looking. The inside, however, was quite the opposite. The small
stone square building opened into a strangely undecorated, dull, and blandly
constructed open chamber. Hidden beneath the surprisingly lifeless, and mostly
empty library facade (which contained a few unimportant books and scrolls) was
a labrynthine complex containing what was quite possibly the largest library
in the known world. The passageways twisted and turned, rising and falling at
strange, disorienting angles. The passages were only as tall as the tallest
darkling, making it nearly impossible for anyone other than a darkling to swiftly
travel the tunnels leading to the highly prized collections of knowledge and lore.

A group of eight of the most powerful, most knowledgeable and ancient magi among
the darklings had their own section of the library devoted to their own special
work. To all of those in magical circles, they were known as the Planar Council. This
group had been tasked with finding a way to use magic to open a gateway to another
world. It was a legend among the darklings that another plane of existance existed, one
created by Val-Shoreil, called the Plane of Darkness. In this plane, the darklings 
believed, nothing gave off light, there were no suns, no glowing moons, and no glowing
earth pulsing with the power of Telan-Ri. To them, it was their Holy Land. They knew
that at some point the light of the elves and Telan-Ri would overtake even the most
remote regions of Emerald, and they would be lost. They had to be prepared for
a time in the future when this would come to pass.

Three hundred years after the group's formation, dozens of rooms had been filled
with the accumulated knowledge of the Planar Council. They had learned the arts
of summoning creatures from other planes, such as elementals. They had learned
the arts of summoning the essence of another plane, using it for attack magic (such
as fireballs, icebolts, and more bizarre planar essences, such as nether and even chaos). But in
all their three hundred years of research, testing, and unfortunate accents, they
had never learned the secret of travel to the other planes.

Then, one day during a routine experiment on a summoned elemental creature, it was
asked if it could summon things by itself. The fire elemental appeared to understand
the question. Suddenly, a 'hole' appeared before it, and it stepped through. It almost
instantly re-appeared, carrying armfuls of objects and trinkets from its home plane,
grinning as if it had done well.

This was the breakthrough the Planar Council had been searching for for three hundred
years. They spent the next ten years attempting to discern the nature of that
fire elemental's ability to open a hole to its home plane. One night, they were sure
they had discovered the nature and form of the magic.

The Planar Council had determined that the fire elemental could open the hole to
his home plane easily because it was to his home plane. The Council had set up
eight focus objects to enchance the powers of each of the mages. Each mage spent
two weeks 'charging' the focus object with his essence, giving it the ability to
hold a store of its own power.

Then, on the night of what the Planar Council called the Exodus, all appeared to be
going well. The mages gathered on the roof of the library's facade and began their
ritual. The ritual lasted 10 hours, with each mage slowly but surely working themselves
into a magical trance from which they would jointly activate the spell to open
the 'hole', to where they believed the Plane of Darkness existed.

And then the spell was cast. The sky thundered and the ground shook. Suddenly, with
a concussion that knocked the Council from the rooftop, a giant, black, swirling
vortex appeared hovering above the library. This was it! They had created a magical
gateway between two worlds. But before they could begin their rejoice, the oldest
member of the Council signalled that something had gone wrong.

The Council took to the rooftop and began investigating the portal. It became
apparent that despite the huge amount of power they had expended, they had
only been able to create a partial gateway. The head of the council guessed that
the other side of the gateway must be somewhere -between- planes.

After three more days of research and investigating the portal, it was decided
that one of the Council would go through the portal to examine the other
side. Immahdras, the youngest at 560 years of age, volunteered. He entered the portal,
and almost instantly re-appeared. He told the Council that he had been wandering a
vast nothingness for what he deemed to be a hundred years. It had taken him
a hundred and ten years to find the location of the portal once he had become
lost in the nothingness. The concept astounded the Council.

Months later, after painstaking research and investigation, by sending inanimate
objects through the portal along with thousands of other tests, the Council had
finally determined what had gone wrong. The gateway was in the process of forming between
two worlds when it ran out of magic to fuel is birth. Instead of vanishing, it simply
stopped expanding, and opened the other side "between" the two worlds, into a vast
nothingness that the Council believes exists not only between planes, but between
time and space. In addition to their magical prowess, the ability of the darkling
scientists cannot be surpassed.

Knowing the true nature of the place to which they had opened a doorway, the Council
was overjoyed at the results of their mistake. Not only had they found a place
that had no light, no sun, no moons, and no Telan-Ri, but they had found a place
where they could exist indefinately.

It was then that the mages began construction of the Temple of Eternity. They created
the temple around the portal exit, and created magical beacons so that those not
within site of the portal could find it again while wandering the expanse of the
place the darklings now simply called, "The Between".

The most wondrous thing about the construction of the Temple was that since it took
place outside of time, to those who remained behind, it appeared to be completed
within minutes, though the builders returned having aged hundreds of years.

To protect their new save haven, they had found a way to close and open the portal
without actually destroying it. They appointed a new Council that would provide
leadership for the mages in Emerald while the Planar Council and thousands of other
darklings left for the Temple of Eternity, to maintain and keep it for when it would
be needed as an escape for the darklings.

One thing that they had not considered was the odd passage of time. Because of the
nature of the gateway, it cannot be used by those within the Temple unless it has
been opened and activated in Avular. Because time passes in Avular but does not
in the Temple, hundreds of years passed without word from those mages in the Temple.
Enough time passed that eventually the method of opening the gateway to the Temple
was lost, trapping the Emerald darklings on Emerald, and the Temple darklings within
their temple.

Because the focus objects that originally operated the gateway have aged so much, 
almost all of their essence is gone. While the gate is already created, it still
takes power to open it, and it takes the power of all eight focii since there are
no darklings who know the arts involved in opening the gate. The gate can maintain
its stability for a minute or two, but then it will fizzle again and have to be
re-invoked.

The possibility for incredible questy goodness here is that the players will not
only need to be able to figure out how to get into the Temple, but before they
go in they'll need to figure out how to get out, too! It can range in difficulty
from having one member of the team remain behind with a magical item that allows
communication through the gateway, waiting for the team signal to open the gate, to
the simplest (but far less theme-coherent) method of allowing a quest item to 
open the gate from the other side. There will be plenty of opportunity for rescue
and re-unite quests, as well as magical item/weapon quests, and plenty of magical
things to hunt in both darkling areas. not only that, but due to the nature of
the architects of both areas, the environment itself will be as interactive or
more than an NPC.

There is also infite room for future expansion by allowing players to discover
portals that the denizens of the Temple created in failed attempts to return home,
where they actually landed in different planes.
