Message: 10
From   : Crystania
Subject: Armour (forwarded)
CC     : Crystania
Date   : Dec 20 1997

Author : Crystania
To     : Stern
CC     : Crystania
Date   : Mar 18 1997

Greetings my Lord...

I have spent much thought on the types and descriptions of Armour
that may one day become available to members of the Society. I
looked for an approriate style that was different and new to these
realms as well as a possible color other than the basic black
which seems to dominate a lot of the armour already in use. I also
think each piece should coordinate by either being made from the same
type of material or being of the same color. Following is a list of
my ideas. May they please the Dark Lord, the Nine and the Annatar.

1. A dark crimson-black casque. (Helmet)
    This skull shaped helmet is made from a strange type of material
    which is not metal but seems more like the hard texture of bone.
    The smooth blackened contoured surface has intricate designs
    embedded into exterior much like ancient runes. Each carving
    emits an unusual dark crimson coloration which blends into
    the surrounding blackness like blood on blackened bone. The
    picture of a Moon disfigured with a ghastly face of death has
    been etched into the front of the helmet.

2. A dark crimson-black shade. (Face mask)
    This oval shaped mask is made from a strange type of material
    which is not metal but seems more like the hard texture of bone.
    The smooth blackened contoured surface has intricate designs
    embedded into the exterior much like ancient runes. Each carving
    emits an unusual dark crimson coloration which blends into the
    surrounding blackness like blood on blackened bone. The picture
    of a Moon disfigured with a ghastly face of death has been etched
    into the forehead of the mask.

3. A dark crimson-black gorget. (Neck guard)
    This throat band is about one inch in height and fits securely
    around the neck. It is made from a strange type of material which
    is not metal but seems more like the hard texture of bone. The
    smooth blackened contoured surface has intricate designs embedded
    into the exterior much like ancient runes. Each carving emits an
    unusual dark crimson coloration which blends into the surrounding
    blackness like blood on blackened bone. The picture of a Moon
    disfigured with a ghastly face of death has been etched into
    the front of the gorget.

4. A dark crimson-black breastplate. (Chest armour)
    This elegantly styled breastplate is made from a strange type
    of material which is not metal but seems more like the hard
    texture of bone. The smooth blackened contoured surface has
    intricate designs embedded into the exterior much like ancient 
    runes. Each carving emits an unusual dark crimson coloration
    which blends into the surrounding blackness like blood on 
    blackened bone. The picture of a Moon disfigured with a
    ghastly face of death has been etched into the upper left
    hand corner of the breastplate.

5. A pair of dark crimson-black bracers. (Arms)
    These bracers extend from shoulder to wrist and are made from
    a strange type of material which is not metal but seems more
    the hard texture of bone. The smooth blackened contoured surface
    has intricate designs embedded into the exterior much like
    ancient runes. Each carving emits an unusual dark crimson
    coloration which blends into the surrounding blackness like
    blood on blackened bone. The picture of a Moon disfigured
    with a ghastly face of death has been etched into each bracer.

6. A pair of dark crimson-black gauntlets. (Hands)
    These gauntlets are made from a strange type of material which
    is not metal but seems more like the hard texture of bone. The
    joints are held together with sturdy pieces of black leather
    allowing free movement. The smooth blackened contoured surface
    has intricate designs embedded into the exterior much like
    ancient runes. Each carving emits an unusual dark crimson
    coloration which blends into the surrounding blackness like
    blood on blackened bone. The picture of a Moon disfigured with
    a ghastly face of death has been etched into each gauntlet.

7. A pair of dark crimson-black cuisses. (Thigh)
    These cuises extend from hip to knee and are made from a strange
    type material which is not metal but seems more like the hard
    texture of bone. The smooth blackened contoured surface has
    intricate designs embedded into the exterior much like ancient
    runes. Each carving emits an unusual dark crimson coloration
    which blends into the surrounding blackness like blood on
    blackened bone. The picture of a Moon disfigured with a ghastly
    face of death has been etched into each cuisse.

8. A pair of dark crimson-black greaves. (Shin)
    These greaves extend from the knee to ankle and are made from a
    strange type of material which is not metal but seems more like
    the hard texture of bone. The smooth blackened contoured surface
    has intricate designs embedded into the exterior much like
    ancient runes. Each carving emits an unusual dark crimson coloration
    which blends into the surrounding blackness like blood on blackened
    bone. The picture of a Moon disfigured with a ghastly face of death
    has been etched into each greave.

9. A pair of dark crimson-black boots. (Feet)
    These stury black leather boots are contoured with intricate
    designs embedded into the smooth surface. Each carving emits an
    unusual dark crimson coloration which blends into the surrounding
    blackness much like blood. The picture of a Moon disfigured with a 
    ghastly face of death has been etched into each boot.

10. A dark crimson-black shield. (Shield)
     This round shield is made from a strange type of material which
     is not metal but seems more like the hard texture of bone. The
     smooth blackened contoured surface has intricate designs embedded
     into the exteriormuch like ancient runes. Each carving emits an 
     unusual dark crimson coloration which blends into the surrounding
     blackness like blood on blackened bone. The picture of a Moon 
     disfigured with a ghastly face of death has been etched into
     the center of the shield.


Walk in Shadows my Lord
Forever in Darkness
Dintiriel, in service

