"Nothing"
---------

This is a very preliminary plan for a dwarven village based somewhere
in western Calia. (ie somewhere where it can be attached to the 
existing domain rather than the Great Central Forest.) I really don't
want to have it named Nothing but I have yet to come up with 
something I do like, and so chose Nothing from the inhabitants habit
of insisting there's nothing of value there. 

I want the area to have a fair amount of humour in it, hopefully 
without going over the top and making it just plain stupid. There 
may be a few references to Terry Pratchett and his particular type of
dwarves, but no outright theft. For instance the dwarves will likely 
fight with axes, but I may include a single loaf of hard bread that 
can be wielded as a club. (If I can make an object both a weapon and 
food.)

As I've been writing this I've begun to suspect I may also be taking 
a little inspiration from the Iraqi Information Minister . "There is 
most definately no diamond mine here." 

The Dwarves

- The inhabitants will be fairly typical dwarves for the most part, 
    short, bearded, like axes, that sort of thing.
- They will be somewhat greedy. If possible I'd like to have 
    prices in the village reflect this. Things will be sold for
    more than they would be elsewhere, and where applicable 
    bought for less. 
- Rather than a King or Thane the local dwarves will be lead by a
    Chairman. Local affairs are run a bit like a business, but the 
    title comes from the fact that this is the man (or woman, since
    dwarves don't really care as long as you have a proper beard) 
    with the Chair. Everyone else has to sit on stools, benches, or 
    whatever. 
- The dwarves insist that there is nothing of significant value in 
    the village. Most npcs will have an add_act where they say 
    something about this. They have nothing of value, they really 
    don't have a diamond mine, and they certainly don't have a very 
    large and valuabe blue diamond worked by expert gemcutters in the
    treasury.  
- Important figures in the village besides the Chairman are the 
    Treasurer, who guards the entrance to the treasury (which has 
    nothing in it), and the Clerk, who keeps track of all the 
    nothing. (There could be more people along these lines if I come
    with roles for them.) 

The Village 

- The village is built at the base of a cliff. The most important 
    buildings are actually in a complex carved into the rock. Outside
    there are a number of well built stone buildings which include 
    the homes of most of the population. 
- Things inside include the Chairmain's office and quarters, the 
    Treasury (which has nothing in it), the Clerk's office, and the
    local bank. 
- The local pub is the largest and most important building on the
    outside. They serve a number of potent beverages, such as Red
    Tick Beer, and a number of local delecacies, including deep fried
    hamsters. There may be a local bard here as well, playing old 
    favorites like "Gold Gold Gold Gold" and "The Hiho Song"
- The post office and general store will be located oustide, as well 
    as the adventurer's guild if I choose to include one. (The store 
    could be inside, but I don't want it to get crowded in there. 
    also it says something about the locals that the bank is in there
    and the pub isn't.)
- The population of the village is small, and several people may live 
    in one building, so there won't need to be very many houses. 
    These may or may not be open to players, depending on wether or 
    not I need them for anything. 


Notes

- Even though the village has nothing of value, there will be signs
    of wealth in various places. For instance, the chair itself will
    be very ornate and covered in jewels. (It's too heavy to steal
    though.)
- The big quest in this area will be to find a way into the Treasury
    and grab whats not there. I'd like this to be fun yet somewhat
    complex. More than just beating up the Treasurer and opening the 
    door. Maybe having more than one way to accomplish parts of it. 
- I'm not certain yet how I want players to find out about the 
    quest. The nice thing to do would be to have an npc somewhere who
    wants whats in the treasury. It might be fun to have players 
    figure out for themselves that there is something there based on 
    the denials and such. 
- The players should be able to get some part of what's in the 
    treasury as a reward, but I'll have to find some way to make this
    reasonable, even though there theoretically should be a ton of 
    loot there. 
- Other quests may include getting some delecacy for the pub 
    (long-coated creamy weasels?), or maybe doing something to the 
    Chair (No whoopee cushions, but a tack or nail could work. :P)
- I don't know what the rules, if any, for gems are. That will have 
    to be looked into before deciding what the mine will actually be.
    Originally I had intended this to be a gold mine, but diamonds
    or some other gem makes it easier to figure out what the special
    treasure in the treasury is.  
- The mine, which doesn't exist, has it's enterance hidden somewhere
    in the cave complex. Maybe a hidden trapdoor underneath some well
    woven carpet. (Finding it might be another quest.) The mine 
    does not necessarily have to very large, or even accessible to 
    players. It could also be left out for now and developed further
    later. 
- This plan is still preliminary, and I could decide to make 
    significant changes. For instance the entire village could be in
    inside the cliff face, and the mine could be outside of the 
    village looking like a normal cave. ("There is no cave, and it's
    definately not a mine.") 



