 
Novo's auction house
====================

Purpose:  Trading items is a very important aspect to Genesis, and up until
now there has been no effective way of doing so.  Many guilds try to set up
trading routes for hard-to-obtain items, and money is never the currency 
used.  As well, casual gamers do not have a chance to use much of this
equipment, and an auction would allow them the chance to bid on things that
they normally never see.

How it works:  The player recieves an autoloading paddle when they enter 
the auction house.  This is the item that allows them to see auctions 
remotely, as well as be informed on what is available to buy.  The player 
can also give an item to the auctioneer, to set up an auction to sell that 
item.

The auction takes platinum coins only.  The seller chooses a starting 
price, and a maximum price (buy it now, in Ebay terms).  They choose an 
auction time (1-72 hours), and whether the buyer and seller are anonymous.  
At the end, 10% of the selling price is kept by the auctioneer.  If the 
initial price is too high (a player is trying to use the auction as a drop 
room), they must deposit 50% of the starting price, which will only be 
refunded if the item is sold.

The paddle will hum whenever an auction is started, and players anywhere 
can see the list of items for auction, as well as any details.  They can 
place a bid remotely, with the paddle, if they have enough platinum on 
them.  

At the conclusion of the auction, the seller must return to the auction 
house to get his money, and the buyer to get his item.  If a player is 
outbid, they must also go to the auction house to get their money back.  
The auction house will keep track of how much credit they are owed.

The auction house will continue auctions at armageddon, but only if the 
item recovers.  Similarly, the buyer can pick up their item after 
armageddon, if it saved.  The item is cloned immediately, so there will be 
no worry about unique counts being off.

There is also a quest, initiated by standing at the podium.  The player
takes part as an auctioneer, selling an item of value, while the auctioneer 
is out.  If the player makes a mistake, or takes too long, they will fail 
in completing the quest.  Upon successful completion (even with a few 
minor mistakes), they will also get a small reward (1-2 platinum) for their 
5-10 minutes of work.  This is repeatable, whether they have done the
quest or not.

Gorboth's comments, with my comments added below:

From   : Gorboth
Subject: thoughts on the auction doc
Date   : Wed Mar 26 21:13:43 2008

Comments on the Auction House:

1. I think that we should have the quest be optional rather than an entry
   requirement for the Auction House. I would fear that there would be a
   rather unnatural log jam of players trying to do the quest when we
   first open.

> I've made the quest optional - perhaps we can even open before the
> quest is in place.

2. I'm not sure I understand the "maximum" price idea.

> This allows casual buyers to get an item immediately, instead of waiting
> for the end of the auction.  If I auction a sword with a maximum price
> of 5 platinum - when a 5 platinum bid is accepted, the auction ends
> immediately.  I'm open to suggestions on a better explanation by the
> dwarf.  

3. I'm a little concerned that players could still use the auction house
   as a droproom if they use two characters, passing it back and forth
   through the auction house to each character for prohibitively high
   prices. We can at least incorporate code that checks to see if the
   seller and buyer are registered as belonging to the same player, and
   if so, prevent the trade.
   
> I increased the auction fee to 10% - so 1000 platinum 'protection' would
> still cost them 100 platinum in fees.  I am concerned that the registered
> user list should not be accessible to non-admin, and so I would not want 
> to have access to it in the auction house.

4. I love your decisions regarding what can be done remotely and what
   must be done in person. :-)

> Thanks!  I think this is pretty effective.

5. Banning Kender? Funny idea, but not so fun for the poor Kender players.
   What if for Kender alone the quest is a requirement, and then they are
   trusted by the auctioneer who feels endebted?

> I am concerned about potential for abuse (a kender is able to steal from
> superior guru awareness players).  I will take it out, but reserve the
> right to block kenders if I find them abusing the auction house to pay
> for their training and such.



