
Roleplaying Background.
-----------------------
Elven archer parties  are the backbone of the elven resistance.  They keep
Qualinesti  safe  from outside  threats,  as well as  working  to stop the
Dragonarmy  progress.  They  are the  best of the best,  the  elite  elven
warriors who  will eventually  save Qualinesti.  Elven Archer  parties are
famous throughout Ansalon, and even  Krynn for their deadly  accuracy with
a bow,  their hit-and run  geurilla tactics,  their  power to  blend right 
into the forest, and their ability to work together with brutal efficiency.

Joining the Elven Archers Guild.
--------------------------------
Those who wish to join this  group may  do that by speaking with Quillean, 
who in the Loremaster of the Archers. However, he can give the new members
only the basic training.  To access wider range of  abilties  they have to
contact the Senator of the Thalas-Enthia, who is the main advisor of their
leader. If he manages to convince Porthios, the heir to the Speaker of the
Suns, the person is allowed to enter their community on the full rights.

However, accepting depends on the physical capabilities of the player, ie.
it will limited by his mortal level/dexterity.

The training.
-------------
After joining,  the hard  training awaits  the new member and he will have 
to spend much time on the shooting ground, before he can  master different 
tactics and abilities of the Elven Archer.  

And there is indeed much to learn.

- aimed shot    - the archer can aim on the weakest spot of his enemy.
                  This is a basic ability of the archer.
- retreat       - ability to retreat from the first line and gain some
                  distance for shooting. The archer moves into shadows
                  while fighting outdoors. 
- fast draw     - this allows him to shoot faster, but with less accuracy.
- precision     - this ability increases the archer's accuracy, but 
                  shooting takes a bit more time.
- guided shot   - the arrows have 100% chance to hit the enemy, but damage
                  is reduced somewhat.
- dual shot     - the archer is able to shoot twice in a blink of the eye.

The players will not have access to all these abilities just after joining,
however. He will gain them one by one after reaching a certain level/stats
or just after successful training on the shooting ground. Also, he may use 
only one of the offensive abilities ( aimed shot,  guided shot, dual shot) 
at time;  which one - it is his choice.  Similar thing applies to the fast 
draw and precision.

Elves are also familiar with magic, that is why the Elven Archers will be 
able to cast a few basic spells.

 - elfvision, regrowth, eagle  - simple spells, accessable also by layman
                                 branch.
 - rest                        - simple fatigue restoring spell
 - blur                        - defensive spell, bluring the body of the
                                 archer and thus making him more difficult
                                 to be hit.
 - revive                      - health restoring spell
   

Table of levels and abilities.
------------------------------

 Level   Ability           Spells
 =====   =============     =============
   0     -                 elfvision, regrowth, eagle
   1     aimed shot        -
   2     -                 -
   3     retreat           rest
   4     -                 -
   5     fast draw         -
   6     -                 blur
   7     precision         -
   8     -                 -
   9     guided shot       heal
   10    -                 -
   11    -                 -
   12    dual shot         -
   13    -                 - 
   14    -                 -

The forest of Qualinesti.
-------------------------
Being their natural environment, the forest is the great ally to the Elven
Archers. They will be more effective while fighting in Qualinesti. However,
they have to guard the forest from intruders and that is why they are able
to place snares and simple traps there.

The Dark Elves.
---------------
Only good aligned elves are accepted into the guild, but there might happen
that one turns into the evil path one day. He will remain in the guild, but
he will be  considered the Dark Elf  by the elven  society.  Dark elves are 
outcast and are not welcome in Qualinesti.  That is why  such person is not
able  to enter the  guild hall  any more  and may  forget about gaining new 
abilities.
There is an exception. Under the special circumstances, the Dark elf may be 
forgiven  by  the  Senator of the Thalas-Enthia,  who  have  to consult the 
Speaker of the Suns first. This do not happen often, however.

The layman branch.
------------------
There is also a layman branch of  the Elven Archers. They do not get any of
the abilities listed in the table, which are above the level 0. However, it 
will be possible for them to switch to occupational branch, without leaving 
the layman one.  They will start  training from level 1,  of course if they 
are accepted by the Senator. Otherwise, they stay with the basic abilities.

Suggested skills.
-----------------
 - sneak
 - hide
 - missile weapons (primary weapon skill)
 - sword           (secondary weapon skill)
 - location sesne
 - magic skills    (spellcraft, life spells..)
 - awareness
 - tacking
 - herbalism
 - hunting

Generally these are the same skills that the guild offers at the moment, but 
probably some of them will be trainable to a bit higher level.


