This idea was conceived 12/4/1996
by Finwe


Dragons of Pern
---------------
In the story, dragonlets hatch occaisonally on the beach. Those present can 
bond with the dragonslets, or fire lizards actually, for life through a 
process called Impression. This involves feeding the hatchling. When a 
person is Impressed to a fire lizard, certain abilities are obtained. 
The player can teleport, or send, messages to others. The fire lizard 
reflects the moods of the person, protects the player during battles, 
will sing when the player sings, sleeps with the person, often rides 
around with the person either on the shoulder with his tail wrapped 
around the person's neck or on their arm and reflects the person's 
emotions.

But the flip side is that fire lizards requires certain care. They 
need to be fed and their skin must be oiled. If these requirements are 
not fulfilled, the fire lizard leaves.

Imagine having a companion like this when you play. Their primary 
function would be to send messages back and forth and could only be 
obtained after solving a quest. But, true to the Pern storyline, the 
player wouldn't necesarily get their fire lizard, they'd have to wait for 
the next hatching, which would happen periodicaly. They'd be given a 
token that would alert the player when Hatching was approaching. Below 
is an outline of info related to fire lizards.

 -- They come in five colors and in different sizes. The colors are 
gold, bronze, brown, blue, and green, with gold being the biggest.

 -- Fire lizards have 4 limbs. The front two are wings while the rear 
limbs are feet with real toes, not claws.

 -- They can teleport messages to others.

 -- Fire lizards have limited telepathy. This amounts to mostly 
reflecting the same emotions as the person.

 -- Baby fire lizards are Impressed at hatching when the person feeds 
them food. The person names the fire lizard.

 -- Fire lizards will croon or sing when their person sings. Imagine the 
fun a minstrel would have.

 -- They need care. Their skin needs to be oiled on a regular basis and 
must be fed. If fire lizards aren't cared for, they leave and forage 
on their own. If they are sick or ill cared for, the skin turns 
dull. If they are taken care of properly, they are healthy and happy 
with silky resillent skins.

 -- A fire lizard often rides on the person's shoulder with the tail 
wrapped around their neck or on their shoulder.

 -- Fire lizards dive bomb during fights and may breathe fire on the 
enemies.

 -- They reflect the emotions of the person.
