I just want to continue the idea by Dunstable on the pond quest.                
                                                                                
I think i can make it with different solutions avaliable.                       
First you get a task from a hobbit who lost the bracelet somewhere              
during the last merry party (yes, he was drunk enough *giggle*)                 
He thinks it was stolen by the neighbour hobbit.                                
              --- --- ---                                                       
The player returning the bracelet back to him gets some EXP                     
plus some coppers. The hobbit will still think bad on the neighbour.            
              --- --- ---                                                       
The player gets double as much EXP if he returned the bracelet                  
to the Mayor or Skrombi ( the hay questmaster) who can judge                    
the case. The player also makes a kind of witness to him.                       
The quest solidly raises good alignment.                                        
              --- --- ---                                                       
The player also can give the bracelet to travelling merchant                    
who is walking nearby looking for ancient and magic things.                     
The merchant could be a secret Sauron servant or whatever                       
we need to pay good cash and to make evil alignment to the player.              
This case we also give some amount of EXP.                                      
              --- --- ---                                                       
Actually we need only 3 very likely quest npcs.                                 
The fun with nakedness and talk with Mayor remains as well :)                   
                                                                                
                                     -- Anri 94.09.16 --                        

Yes, it does.
Gotta run- Dunstable
