Gatekeeper's quest.
------------------

The gatekeeper has noticed a lot of strange people passing thru the gates of Bree. Find out what you can about them and report to him.

This quest only works at night and only once per night.

Find bill ferney in the inn. You must gain his confidence so he will give player instructions to do this. player must find an Sonic and kill him. Sonic was caught stealing something from bill and bill wants revenge. bring back bloody clothes as proof to bill that Sonic is dead.

player must further prove themself by sneaking into orc camp and getting plans from orc captain. return and bill will give player random password.

Bill unsure so player must betray npc's frienship. return with betrayal and get insignia.

player finds meeting place. player whispers password to doorkeeper.

player goes to another room and must wear insignia to be let in.

player waits for rest of npcs and listens for a while. player must make note of who is at meeting and their descriptions and steals list of other members from desk. after catchphrase, player must sneak out else npcs will attack.

player successfully leaves and gives parchment of descrs to gatekeeper. gets reward.

Well quest
------------
some hobbit kids have fallen down the well. must be rescued.

Well is located off GER. rope is worn and must be replaced as well as the cross bar. requires 2 players. one climbs down well to assist children and the other pulls them up.

P1 gets bar from forge assistant. gets rope from bree. 
P1 removes old rope with new rope and replaces wooden cross beam with new steel cross beam. P1 climbs down rope to children while P2 holds rope. then P1 coaxes kids 1 by 1 into bucket and P2 pulls them up. afterwards, P1 must climb up rope


Well quest II
---------------
The well is fed by an underground stream that has carved out various caverens under the well. This makes an excellent for some traveller to hide treasure.

Dive into the well, and swim down 3-5 rooms, then swim <dir> 2 rooms. Climb out of water.

follow caveren and find skeleton with a parchment clutched in his hand. parchment is a love letter to a woman. speaks of many gifts given to woman. one gift is a fine statue that he'd gained from travels and had given to her.

Find woman in bree. She won't give away anything from lost love, so player must steal statue from her. Take object and break it open. inside is a gem. rewarded for finishing quest.

Letter reads something like this:

My Dearest,

Words cannot express the love I have for you. You are the light of my life and know this, I shall always love you, no matter what happens.

The years may come and go, and ages may pass but ne'er have I known love like I know now for thee now. The stars pale in comparison to what you are to me, and the sun, in all her glory pales before thee. They are all nothing when compared to thee.

When I think of what I feel for you, my heart breaks to live without you. Were I to lose thee, I would die from a broken heart, for my love for thee is more than thou can imagine. For this reason, I regret all I have foolishly done to cast aside my feelings and love for thee. Please remember this for I can no longer bear to live another day without the. Please forgive me, for I regret the pain I must surely, nay, I know I have caused thee.

With deepest regrets,


Lover's quest
--------------
Sonic is upset. His lover ran off with another and now he's forlorn. Find lover and bring back news.


Honey quest
-------------
Someone in bree loves honey, and needs some for whatever reason.
Swarming bees have been seen near bree so a beehive must be nearby.
go to the swarming bees and retrieve honey for the npc.

Objects Needed:
 * Needs honeybucket to carry combs of honey
 * Stinging resistant herbs to ingest
 * Sword or axe to cut into tree
 * Knife to cut combs from hive.

Skills Needed:
 * Climb >= 20
 * Knife >= 15
    
Find swarming bees.

ingest herb.

Climb tree (must have sufficient climb).

Cut into tree with weapon.

Carefully cut honey combs from hive and place in bucket.

Climb down tree and return to npc with honey.

Notes:
 * If player hasn't eaten herb, bee stings will hurt player and may even kill him if he gets too many of them. Herb will make player resistant to stings.
