                             Drop Room Policy
                                   - - -
                       Northern Ranger Headquarters

    We are deeply grateful for any and all freewill contributions you
    make to aid us in our struggle against Evil.  To help us preserve
    as much as possible during an impending visitation by Armageddon,
    we ask that you follow these few simple guidelines:

    1. Always return items borrowed (or a replacement of higher
       value) to the drop room. If you lose an item, do your best
       to replace it or let a council member know so they don't
       think you're a thief.
    2. 'Sort' all weapons, armours, herbs and potions. They will
       automatically go to their correct spots.
    3. Please leave nothing on the floor!
    4. If necessary, you may 'return' items for fellow guild
       members if they were unable to return it themselves.

    Emergency herbs and potions:
    1. The emergency herb jar should contain at least 12, but no more
       than 24, of each of these herbs: athelas, attanar, lothore, and
       suranie. Herbs other than those mentioned here, or those in
       excess of the limits mentioned, should be placed with the
       miscellaneous items instead.
    2. A supply of emergency potions, consisting of at least 10 clear
       potions and 6 purple potions, should be kept on the shelf.

    If you are pulling Drop Room duty in preparation for Armageddon's
    visit, please use the following priorities:

    1. Retrieve the herbs from the emergency jar first, as they always glow.
    2. Retrieve special magical items second.
    3. Retrieve high value weapons (splendid swords or better) second.
    4. Retrieve high value armours (plated or better) third.
    5. Retrieve potions from the shelf.

    As non-glowing items will be removed from the borrowed list after
    Armageddon, allow smaller Rangers and those needing to improve
    their skills to sell the non-glowing items first. However, if there is
    any chance that selling items will endanger the saving of glowing
    items, do not sell anything.

