Message: 74
From   : Udana
Reply  : Bounty Hunters (review)
Date   : Wed Aug 16 13:32:48 2006

Hey, thanks for going through the code.

About..

 ..bugs:
 Thanks for help. I didn't think you would actually read it all. I haven't
finished the code yet. (You also might notice a few differences between
code and docs). I assure you the final version will be checked very
carefully.

 ..blood coins:
 I could improve the current system, by relying on date instead of
armageddon and limiting the amount that can be stacked or come up
with another way of limiting number of traps in game (Like making
them all collapse in time, possibly also restricting some of the traps
for high ranked members). You're right about the heap of course.

 ..static trap effects:
 Ok, sounds reasonable.

 ..gaining rank:
 I was thinking about adding mini-questes that could be used for advancing
in case there were no (or too few) rewards in the office.

 ..triggering traps:
 There are npc that walk around - patrolling or hunting. I don't really
like the idea about npcs 'wandering' into trap in same room in time.

 ..shock trap:
 The battery is 'magic';] Yeah I know it's lame, I'll try come up with
something else;]

 ..too long blind/too much mana:
 I'd have no problem with reducing effects power, if blood coins was changed
too. It would be hard to get someone cought, and then to start a fight
immidetly, so I made trap effects accordingly powerfull. If it was easier
to restock components, they could be downgraded.

 ..poison/stuns/blocking:
 If any of the effects are illeagal I'll remove them. Just let me know
which execly. (Please, please allow stuns again;])

 ..remove_component in the shadow:
 Yeah, you right, I don't know what was I thinking. It must have been late.

 ..infinite stun/instant kill:
 Bug of course.

 ps
 I don't cc it to Tomas, just to avoid spamming him. If he should read it
too, please forward it to him.

 ..poison/stuns/blocking:
 If any of the effects are illeagal I'll remove them. Just let me know
which execly. (Please, please allow stuns again;])

 ..remove_component in the shadow:
 Yeah, you right, I don't know what was I thinking. It must have been late.

 ..infinite stun/instant kill:
 Bug of course.

 ps
 I don't cc it to Tomas, just to avoid spamming him. If he should read it
too, please forward it to him.

