
The Bounty Hunters Layman Guild

I've looked over the code for the guild and I have some concerns,
I've not yet considered the exact tax values as it'll depend
on how we deal with some of these concerns.

Overall things look good. The main problem right now is
with two of the traps that run into the old order prohibiting
movement impairing effects from guild abilities.

I actually can't locate that order right now as it's scrolled
of the board. It's been a few years and I'm not sure that order
did very much good for the game so it might be time to lift it.

I'll get back to you on that issue. In the meantime I have a few things
for you to look into / consider. :)

Cotillion

- Blood Coins

I do not believe that the blood coin system will work.
First, it currently relies on the join room to be reloaded by
armageddon. No code in Genesis is supposed to rely on armageddon in any 
way as it might be removed some day.

Secondly, it seems that bouny hunters are able to keep an infinite 
amount of coins stored. This would make it possible to save the coins 
and then create very bad situations by covering an area in traps. 

I believe some other way to obtain and limit the coins is needed.

- Gaining Rank / Trap Activation

I do not believe the only way to gain rank should be to kill players.
In Genesis one of the keys to our success has been that there is very
little distinction made between players and NPCs. 

Therefore i also think that you should consider adding more ways to 
trigger the traps other than movement. 

Perhaps NPCs and players with low awareness and find remove traps skill 
could accidentaly 'wander' into traps in the room they're standing in 
after a while.

- Trap Effects

Currently it seems all the traps have static effects, I don't think
that will work out. The effect of the trap has to be in relation to
the stats of the bounty hunter placing it in some way.

I'd also say that the traps need to disappear after a while and when
the one who placed them logs out.

As the guild is right now i suspect players will create small seconds
who will join and then place traps to help their mains.

- Pitfall Trap

When I run the numbers for the damage from someone falling from a horse
it seems that it'll instant kill most players.

A player with a weight of 120kg will suffer 2300 hp damage. 
This can't be what you intend.

- Shock Trap

Is the image of a battery and a wire something we want in the game?
The resistance check is broken, check for MAGIC_I_RES_ELECTRICITY
The set_skill_extra code is wrong, you must only modify the previous
value, not overwrite it.

Removing 50% of the targets mana is much to powerful for a layman guild 
ability. Something like 10%-20% would be more appropriate.

- Paint Trap

Don't tell players what they feel. MMs won't like to be forced to laugh
for example.
Broken set_skill_extra code.

- Poison Trap

There is currently an old AoB order preventing guilds from having 
abilities/poisons that inflict fatigue on the target.
So the poison can't be fatigue.

- Snare Trap
 
This probably also falls under the above order.

- Pepper Trap

The blind time from this ability is much too long for a layman guild. 

- Other Notes:

blood coins
  The blood coin object should be turned into a heap (/std/heap.c).

remove_compoent in the shadow
  The way the loop is done here  is extremely inefficient as it creates
  several arrays of all_inventory over and over again.

Infinite stun in the pitfall trap.
  If the pitfall trap collapses while a stun is active the stun will be 
  infinite.
  
