Ideas for critters in the North.

Mountain Regions.
In the Dragontooth Mountains, starvation have spread due to even
harsher climate changes (or influence by the evil something). The
different tribes in the Northlands that constituted the Cold Horde
are now preying on the plains, and pressing towards the southern
regions.


The Creatures inhabiting the Dragontooth so far has consisted of:

The hunting shamblers/striders.

The reclusive Yeti.

The vicious Grimlocks.

The tribal frost goblins.

The roaming frost giants.


THE PAST
--On the origin of the various species in the
Northlands:

THE GIANTS.

Ages ago existed an early much larger predecessor
for the Giants that due to increased comptition
from the other species slowly diminished
in size to consume less, when the climate in
Northern Terel changed to the one we known today.

Little is known about these gargantuan beasts,
except they were originally the predominant species,
feared even by the massive scale wyrms.

These beasts quickly became allies of the
ancestral goblinrace when they later migrated
from the depths of the mountains ans established in
their settlements and caverntribes throughout the
mountainranges.


THE WYRMS.

The ancient scaled wyrms have always been
there. Noone know their true origin except
they are less sentient and much more beastly
cousins of the common dragons found
in Terel. They are either slithering through
the icy peaks of the dragontooth reaches or
luring deep within their icy caverns for whatever
meal that may inadvertedly have entered their
Domain.

GHUNDARCK - (goblins & grimlocks)

Deep in the mountains, a ferocious race of
blind cave hunters dwelt. They were of medium
high, grey skinned humanoids, completely devoid
of sight. For the reference they are today only
known by the ancient goblin word "ghundarck",
which loosely translates as "tunnelfeeder".

They started at pack hunters, but
eventually grew to form an actual tribal society.

As time passed their superior hunting skills and
explosive breeding ratio forced them to seek new
hunting grounds. It turned into a cannibalistic
society with tribes waging wars and feeding upon
eachother.

Competition forced them to expand, forming vast
tunnel systems spanding the entire dragontooth
mountainrange. Sometimes they encountered the
slumbering ice wyrms, but mostly they just met
other tribes, to feed upon,until one day finally
some reached the surface.

After this the lines of the ghundarcks become a
split one.

Those who remained in the mountain depths, afraid
of the cold surface, and all the new smells and sensations.
This race became known as the Grimlocks.

Those who left to settle, expand and hunt in
this new world.
The settlers evolved eyesight, more intelligence,
their deep grey skin turning pallid grey and green.
Eventually, they become the tribal species and
the most sentient being of the Horde called the
Goblin.

The Goblins brought from the depths with them
also a deep instictive faith in their Bloodgod, Ghuarhl,
which has dominated Goblin society ever since.

Centuries later the Grimlocks, facing extinction from
starvation, evolved into the small hairy predators
we know today. Some have emerged from the depths,
and the rest have likely perished, and their endless
tunnels are now evidence of a primitive culture
completely gone.

The emerging Grimlocks, being small, almost blind and lost
in the vast surface world they had once shunned, were easy
prey for all the predators of the vast cold snow covered
mountainsides to which they were not at all prepared
to live in. Again this troubled race feared annihilation.

Yet they encountered a race of tall ape-like humanoids.
The Yeti first hunted the small Grimlocks but at some
point they trapped and domiciled them. And the Grimlocks
have ever since been the bloodhounds and servanttribe
to the Yeti. The Yeti depend on the Grimlocks unmatched
scent to track down prey, and the Grimlocks in return
rely on the Yeti to actually catch a prey many times their
capacity and size. This symbiosis has existed for many
years, and should it fall, it may threaten the survival
of either kin.

YETI
The Yeti then and now were a secretive group of ape-like humanoids
covered in white fur. They are the least aggressive of the
Horde species of the Dragontooth Mountains. Their actual
origin is not known, but most scholars and wildland experts
suggest they are some offspring of the ancient northmen, some
say they are an arcaic civilization degenerated through a
weapon that backfired on them. Nothing is really certain,
as the Yeti themselves keep no record of the past.

All that is known for certain is that they are a somewhat
ancient species, and adapt better than their competitors,
and that they are dependant to some extent on their blood-hounds
the Grimlocks.

SHAMBLERS
Noone know from where these savage hunters came. Since few
live to tell of the encounters with these aggressive beasts. They
may have been around for a long time, and the explorers simply
unable to return any reliable evidence.
What remains for certain is that they always have been
the superior species of the Dragontooth, relying on a deep
desire for endlessly hunting any prey with fearless savagery
and cunning.

The other species have interacted with one another through time
forming anything from loose non-aggression understandings to
close relationships and symbiosises. The Shamblers have never.
Despite their intelligence, they have never seemed to consider
others as anything but food. Any attempt to communicate with
these hunters have ended violently.

CURRENT STATE
--As stated above, the races of the Dragontooth reaches are forced
down to the hillsides and endless cold plains of the Northlands.

the adaptive Yeti have managed this transistion better than the
others but they have somewhat reduced in numbers, having problems finding
the recluse they normally enjoy. The Goblins facing problems with 
over-population
have roamed far in the search of food, taking their foul religious
practices even as far south as the silver forest.

The giants are managing the new conditions as they still survive
better in the higher reaches than others and due to sheer size are
capable of taking on the packs of mammoths that graze the endless plains.

The Wyrms.
Not accustom to the plains this slithering horror is facing extinction
due to famine. The few wurms that remain, insane by a hunger
they have never known before, feverishly await in their deep caves and
caverns, and will attack any intruder without hesitation 
to feed upon them.

The mysterious shamblers are still the supreme hunter of this eco-system
lying in their constant ambushes, or sneaking up on their enemies with
unmatched cunning and stealth they are also succesful.


MONSTER DESCRIPTIONS

1. General appearance/lifestyle.
2. Ideas for noncombat emotes/behaviour
3. H
unting technique.
4. Ideas for specials & combat behaviour.
5. Ideas for implications for a pathfinder.****
6. Thoughts about stats/xp gain/danger.

****
This is something that will be elaborated on in detail in the pathfinders 
suggestions,
but Im thinking of a "passive" special ability "Pathfinding Experience (PE) 
of the Pathfinders.
All these monsters have various dangerous traits which the Pathfinders
slowly learn to counter and even benefit from in combat, based on th
"time travelled in terel/northlands x guildstat x combat bits of terel 
monters*"




GRIMLOCK
1.LIFESTYLE
The grimlock or "chitter" as they are called because of their senseless
babble in combat, stands about a half meter high. They are covered in long
grey and black hairs, and have underdeveloped small black eyes. Their faces 
are proportionally
bigger than their small bodies, and most notably are large pointy ears, a 
wide mouth with long thin teeth, which is their main weapon in combat.

Grimlocks lifestyle is one spent in cages, leeches, or small inyards?, or 
little caverns, till their
masters send them out to hunt. As such, they breed, they hunt, they feed, 
they die - their life is apparantly little more than this.

random first adverbs in short desc:
vicious, rabid, ravenous, gibbering, scowling, senseless,

random second adverbs in short desc:
grey-haired, black-haired, wide-mouthed, short, black-eyed, fanged,

long desc:
It is a small long-haired creature, about 1 foot tall. Most notably is the 
big head on the small body.
The head is dominated by large ears, a wide mouth with long razorshap fangs, 
above which a set of nostrils vibrate constantly. Small underdeveloped eyes 
stare mindlessly under the long furrowed brows. The tiny arms has small but 
sharp three fingered claw.

2. Emotes
Although Grimlocks are likely not encountered without combat being the next 
step:

The vicious grey-haired grimlock gibbers incomprehensely.

The vicious grey-haired grimlock paces pack and forth, nostrils flaring to 
pick up a scent.

The vicious grey-haired grimlock chatters mindlessly.

The vicious grey-haired grimlock screeches.

The vicious grey-haired grimlock moves about restlessly.

3. HUNTING TECHNIQUE
The Grimlock hunting technique is two-fold. They may walk in packs of 5 to 
7, sent out
by their Yeti masters to find a prey and pin it, till the Yeti may come and 
assist and slay
the prey found. Also they may be some 3-5 walking with a Yeti pack master or 
two, where
they slow down, confuse, and pin the enemy while the Yeti may deal out the 
real damage with
slashes from claws or primitive weaponry.

Grimlocks act almost entirely upon smell and sound, and are therefore not 
affected by darkness
or being blinded whatsoever. Therefor they hunt both night and day. 
(blindfight skill max).

4.
Grimlocks work by attacking mindlessly, attacking their victims, with the 
mouths open.
They then jump up, and snap shut their jaws sinking their fangs into the 
arms and legs of
the enemy. Then they remain attached, painfully draining the prey for energy 
and life
till the enemy collapses or the Yeti arrive to assist in finishing them off. 
Unarmoured opponents
should fear these beasts greatly.

Combat emotes if fighting:
The vicious grey-haired grimlock gibbers viciously, spittle flying 
everywhere.
The vicious grey-haired grimlock holds it claws aloft and cackles.
The vicious grey-haired grimlock snarls excitedly.

Combat emotes if clinged.
The vicious grey-haired grimlock attached to your/Tomas leg/arm gives off a 
muffled shriek.
The vicious grey-haired grimlock attached to your/Tomas leg/arm makes a 
horrid sucking sound.
The vicious grey-haired grimlock attached to your/Tomas leg/arm wriggles 
causing you/Tomas to grimace in pain.

SPECIAL ATTACKS:

CLING & CALL

The cling is a three fold special.

A. The cling.
B. The effect.
C. The shaking loose.

A. THE Cling.
First the Grimlock will run mindlessly towards its opponent, leap with an 
open maw, and then
try to cling on to an enemys unarmoured exterior. Be it, head, legs or arms. 
The specials success
is dependant on enemys awareness & defense skill versus the dex & clingskill 
of the Grimlock.
Given their small size, several Grimlocks could easily fit on one location.

init string followed by success or no success string.

init strings/
The vicious grey-haired grimlock screeches madly, and runs toward you/x, 
with an open mouth
it leaps at you/x

The vicious grey-haired grimlock crouches and suddenly jumps at you/x with a 
gaping maw!

With a horrible laughter the vicious grey-haired grimlock leaps forward, its 
mouth twisted in
a nasty fanged grin.

/success string on unprotected location.

The vicious grey-haired grimlock snaps it mouth shut, burying its teeth 
deeply into your/xs "arm/leg/head"
(damage to player + cling)
Biting down hard the vicious grey-haired grimlock sinks its fangs into 
your/xs "arms/leg/head".
(damage to player + cling)
The vicious grey-haired grimlock closes it mouth with a snap viciously 
clinging on to your/xs "arms/legs/head".
(damage to player + cling)

/success string on protected location.

The vicious grey-haired grimlock snaps it mouth shut, grazing you/x, but the 
x armour protects you/x.
(damage to player but no cling)

The vicious grey-haired grimlock manages to slice a nasty wound across 
your/xs "arm/leg/head".
(damage to player but no cling)

The vicious grey-haired grimlock hurts x/your "arm/leg/head" with its 
razorsharp fangs.
(damage to player but no cling)

/no success

You/x jerk back and narrowly avoid the fangs snapping only inches from 
your/x "arm/leg/head".

You/x sidesteps and the vicious grey-haired grimlock flies wide.

B. The effect.
The effect of the cling depends on where it is succesful/located. In all 
cases there is a constant
damage and fatiguing effect.


Additional effects:
Leg:
Slowness,

The vicious grey-haired grimlock wriggles and sinks its teeth deeper into 
your leg, which hinders your movements somewhat.

The vicious grey-haired grimlock wriggles and sinks its teeth deeper into 
x's leg.

Attempt to leave may be painful,
As you/x moves (direction) the vicious grey-haired grimlock jerks, 
inflicting a terrible pain
in your/x leg.

Arm:
Slowness,

The vicious grey-haired grimlock wriggles and sinks its teeth deeper into 
your arm, which hinders your movements somewhat.
The vicious grey-haired grimlock wriggles and sinks its teeth deeper into 
x's arm.

Strength drain,

The strain of the vicious grey-haired grimlock mangling your arm drains your 
strength.

The vicious grey-haired grimlock mangles xs arm.

Head:

heavy damage
Pain sings in your eyes and ears as the grimlock clinging on to your head 
squeels bloodthirstily
and slices into you with claws and fangs. / X seems to experience great pain 
as the grimlock
attached to his/her head squeels bloodthirstily and slices madly into x with 
claws and fangs.

C.The shaking loose.

The shaking loose depends on the characters dexterity and fatigue. If dex is 
too low or fatigue too high it will fail, otherwise good chance of success. 
Whenever a character is clinged s/he may try to <flail> to shake off the 
Grimlocks. Doing so drains a little fatigue and can be done repeatedly, but 
the threat is that the critters may be completely impossible to remove. Note 
that a flail can remove one or more critters per attempt.

Success string:

You/Tomas flail around wildly causing the XX grimlock and the xx grimlock to 
loose hold of you/him/her. The xx and the xx grimlock fall(s) to the ground 
snarling.

Trashing limbs frantically you/Tomas manages to shake off the xx grimlock, 
the xx grimlock and the grimlock.
The xx grimlock stands up shrieking furiously.

(1 grimlock only)
Shuffling around, Tomas/you slip(s) free from the savage maws of the xx 
grimlock.

Fail string:
You/Tomas struggle(s) to free your/him/herself but to no avail. The xx 
Grimlock lets out a victorious squeel.

Spinning around wildly you/Tomas attempts to escape the grimlock, with no 
success, however.

Shaking your/his/her arm/leg/head (insert check for location with grimlock) 
you/Tomas fails to shake off the xx grimlock.



On the plains
wolves
snow foxes
snow hares
mammoths

