/*Bree1 listing:*/

This comfortable home is nestled in the heart of Bree just
moments away from Bree Hill itself! It boasts a cozy
bedroom with a private wardrobe, a friendly living room
where guests can be entertained, a fully stocked kitchen
and even a private garden with a discreet exit out back!

Asking Price: 10,000 Platinum Coins
Seller: Sparkle Housing

The finest artists have been comissioned to paint
pictures detailing the house for you to peruse in
advance!

/*Bedroom Picture:*/

This is a spacious bedroom, spread out across the southern 
end of a large house in the village of Bree. A magnificently
ornate wardrobe, tall enough to reach the ceiling stands 
against the western wall while a wide, luxurious bed
stretches out from the southern wall in a welcoming manner.
The rest of the bedroom is currently rather sparse, lacking
any formal decoration at the moment. An open doorway in the
northern wall leads back to the living room.

/*Living Room Picture:*/

You are standing in the living room of a large house in the
village of Bree. A long table built from a dark brown wood
stands in the middle of the room with a soft brown couch
nestled behind it. A narrow doorway in the southern wall
leads into what appears to be a cozy bedroom, while the
kitchen is visible to the north. A sturdy door beside a
small window in the eastern wall leads out into the village
of Bree.

/*Kitchen Picture:*/

This tidy kitchen covers the north end of a large house in
the village of Bree. A narrow wooden counter runs along the
eastern wall of the kitchen, while a large black cauldron
rests in the fireplace located in the southwest corner. A
wide pantry stands in the northwest corner, nestled between
a small window in the north wall and a narrow door in the
west wall. A wide opening in the south wall leads into
a sparsely decorated living room.

/*Garden Picture:*/

This is a small yard belonging to a wealthy townhouse in
the village of Bree. Everything here appears to have been
very carefully maintained, with several small gardens
dotting the manicured green grass of the lawn. A small
garden path of packed dirt winds around the yard carefully,
trailing away from the townhouse and towards the tall hedge
that curves around the western edge. A small stone bench
sits in the middle of the yard beside a stone well, offering
a quiet place for peaceful contemplation.




a history of all sale amounts for each house
a mailing/waiting list with date/time and asking price
auto-extend auctions, minimum 3 minutes after last bid
no "buy now" option for houses
must buy in real estate office
