
Warmth pervades this amorphous space. Close and red-dark, it pulses and thrums
with numinous energy. The air is heavy with an earthy, feminine scent that
calls up visceral pre-memories of maternal nurturing. The milky mist above
swirls and flows into the shape of a grinning skull that seems to be looking
down upon you. Anguished cries and contented murmurs echo in a faint chorus,
whilst a roiling mass presses upon your consciousness -- the presence of those
recently dead and those long forgotten. You have a sense of the multitudes that
once lived in the penumbra of the Source, dedicated to the Gods, and gathered
to the bosom of Mascarvin for nurturing, awaiting the possibility of rebirth.
   There is a dais in the room, and on it, a throne of skulls with a table
placed nearby. Opposite it is a very large torus, spinning on its edge. 
> 
A feeling of awe presses down upon you.
You feel a divine presence filling the room.
Mascarvin steps forth from the mist.
Mascarvin introduces herself as:
Mascarvin the Goddess of Death and Rebirth, myth, female goddess.
Mascarvin speaks: I see you.
Mascarvin speaks: I have followed your deeds. I was prepared to harvest your
soul, but it proved unnecessary.
Mascarvin speaks: You have made it to a place few who expect to live ever do.

> pinch mascarvin
You pinch Mascarvin's cheek.
You feel a tiny bit more experienced!
> 
Mascarvin laughs slowly.
Mascarvin speaks: You must have a death-wish because no one is foolish enough
to disrespect a god and not expect consequences.
Mascarvin speaks: Your wish is granted. Goodbye.

Darkness presses upon you from all directions. The scent of moist earth fills
fills your nose and you feel like you are falling.
You have been poisoned!
You feel less healthy.
Dark spots dance at the edge of your vision. You will die any moment now.
>
You finally land with a painful thud on a lumpy, slimy, sticky floor. OUCH!
 An oppressive feeling of terror floods your being.
You feel so much less healthy, you wish you were dead.
You have died.
