                          Volume 1:  Calian Geography


    1.1 Calia is bounded on the west by the Thalassian Sea and on the east by
    the Gunail Mountains.

        1.1.1 Much of Calia is covered by forests, fields, hills, lakes,
        rivers, and other unremarkable features.

        1.1.2 East Calia is a distinct area near the Gunail Mountains in which
        are concentrated bogs, a petrified forest, the Bleak Zone, and other
        peculiar landscapes.

        1.1.3 As of the compilation of the Chronicles, there was no information
        about what lies east of the Gunail Mountains, nor of the lands to the
        north and south of Calia.

    1.2 Cartography has long been a neglected science in Calia.

        1.2.1 Calians have never been ambitious travelers.

        1.2.2 When warlords began marching across the land they commissioned
        maps, but more for their own aggrandizement than for geographic
        accuracy.

        1.2.3 The current confederation has yet to organize itself sufficiently
        to generate a common set of maps, but some individual city-states are
        rumored to have developed maps of their localities.

        1.2.4 What little is known of East Calia comes from The Passage (volume
        7 of the Chronicles).

    1.3 Calia's temperate climate, abundant rainfall, and fertile soil produce
    an abundant supply of food.

        1.3.1 Slaughtering during the Dim Time has made large game and domestic
        animals somewhat scarce, but smaller animals are still plentiful.

        1.3.2 Potatoes, beets, yams, carrots, and other tuberous vegetables are
        particularly well-suited to growing here.

        1.3.3 Also plentiful are pumpkins, squashes, melons, and other fleshy
        vegetables which are both cultivated and found wild in forests and
        plains.

        1.3.4 Cabbages, lettuce, celery, and other low-growing plants are
        cultivated in abundance in the fields of southwestern Calia.

    1.4 Calia's fledgling export-import industry brings in a little hard
    currency.

        1.4.1 The rare tea that grows in the highlands in the northwest is
        sought by connoisseurs all over the world.

        1.4.2 Gum trees in the northern forests are the source of chewing gum.

        1.4.3 Timber from the forests of East Calia is valued because of its
        rich coloration, durability, and suitability for ornate scrollwork.

        1.4.4 Salt mined from the Bleak Zone has a distinctive taste because of
        the traces of other minerals it contains, although it is too piquant
        for use in some recipes.

    1.5 Travellers in Calia will encounter a variety of conditions and
    obstacles.

        1.5.1 The land is crisscrossed by a largely unplanned web of roads,
        paths, and trails.

        1.5.2 Most road-building has been performed by the various city-states,
        who would build a road to a specific point for commercial or defensive
        purposes.

        1.5.3 Because some roads were built by communities which no longer
        exist, there are a number of roads to ruins or to sites which have been
        overgrown by forest in Calia.

        1.5.4 Many streams and rivers cross the land, but most are not
        navigable.

    1.6 East Calia has long been a forbidding place, the subject of wild
    speculation and talespinning.

        1.6.1 Travellers have told of monsters lurking there, but no one has
        been able to verify these tales.

        1.6.2 However, there are records of some adventurers who have gone to
        explore East Calia and have never returned.

                       Volume 2:  Calian Flora and Fauna

    2.1 Plant life in Calia began to change during the years of warfare, and
    the change continues today.

        2.1.1 Dense leaves and vines still dominate large areas, making travel
        by horse nearly impossible.

        2.1.2 Grasslands, perhaps springing from foreign seed, appeared as
        armies repeated trampled more delicate plants and flourish at the
        expense of native plants.

        2.1.3 Fields of wildflowers, once vast, are also giving way to the
        grasslands.

    2.2 A variety of useful trees flourish in Calia.

        2.2.1 Oaks, birches, and various evergreens can be found in vast
        forests.

        2.2.2 The Great Central Forest is divided into northern and southern
        ranges by the Argos River, with the northern range dominated by
        conifers and the southern by hardwoods.

        2.2.3 Willows grow in dense stands scattered throughout the land,
        creating shady canopies under which Calians traditionally bury their
        dead.

        2.2.4 The rarest and most valuable wood comes from the blue cypresses
        of East Calia.

    2.3 Some large mammals still roam Calia, although the wars reduced their
    numbers and pushed most of them into the far reaches of the land.

        2.3.1 Cattle and sheep can be found both wild and domesticated.

        2.3.2 Wild boar are among the most dangerous of Calian wildlife.

        2.3.3 A number of distinct species of wolf prowl all regions of Calia.

            2.3.3.1 The silver wolf is named for its gray and white variegated
            coat which looks like flowing quicksilver when it moves.

            2.3.3.2 The golden wolf is a fierce pack hunter which travels and
            attacks in large numbers.

            2.3.3.3 The white wolf is the largest of Calian wolves.

            2.3.3.4 The timber wolf is small and not very aggressive, and a few
            of them have even been reported to have been domesticated.

            2.3.3.5 The black wolf is a hybrid, the result of a cross between
            two other species, and reports of its characteristics vary wildly.

            2.3.3.6 The gray wolf patrols low, flat land and was nearly killed
            off entirely during the war years.

            2.3.3.7 Rarest of all is the mountain wolf, and little is known of
            its habits.

    2.4 Small mammals reproduce prolifically in the changing landscape, and it
    seems they have benefitted from the incursion of grasses.

        2.4.1 Lemmings travel in great masses across the land with such
        regularity that some villages based their calendars on the migrations.

        2.4.2 Gopheroos can be found in open ground where they can evade
        predators with their zig-zag running ability.

        2.4.3 Hamsters are new to Calia, tiny but ferocious residents of the
        spreading grasslands.

        2.4.4 Other rodents are also common, such as the white-coated creamy
        weasel and the long-tusked boar mouse.

    2.5 Reptiles can be found in the warm lowlands near large rocks or trees in
    whose shadows they can hide.

        2.5.1 Turtles, while not classified into distinct species, appear in a
        variety of colored and patterned shells, and some artisans make jewelry
        or decorative objects from their shells.

        2.5.2 Lizards seem to be in decline as the grasslands are not as well
        suited to them as the ancient tracts of leaves and vines.

    2.6 Calia is famous for its great variety of frogs, and many distinct
    species have been cataloged.

        2.6.1 Dwarf Tree Frogs vary in color from yellow to orange, and their
        bright skins are often marked with a few contrasting stripes.

        2.6.2 Marine Frogs are lean, muscular long-distance swimmers, and a
        close relatives of the Lantia Frog.

        2.6.3 Lantia Frogs are the champion swimmers of Calian frogs,
        surpassing even the ability of their stockier cousins.

        2.6.4 It is unknown whether the name of the Bipiti frog is derived from
        its prolonged call, "bipiti-bipiti-bipiti-bipiti-bipiti", or whether it
        is just a corruption of the common nickname "big pink thing."

        2.6.5 Green Frogs are prolific breeders and can be found in great
        numbers in the streams and ponds of Calian woodlands.

    2.7 Calia is home to a variety of birds.

        2.7.1 Predatory birds have always flourished regions where small game
        is plentiful.

            2.7.1.1 Eagles inhabit mountainous areas where they prey on lizards
            and small mammals, particularly lemmings.

            2.7.1.2 Hawks are elusive residents of the deep forest; while it is
            suspected that there are several different varieties, they have not
            been observed frequently enough to be cataloged.

            2.7.1.3 Falcons are swift hunters of the open plains, once rare but
            now becoming more common above the spreading grasslands.

            2.7.1.4 Ospreys nest and hunt in the waters of the Thalassian Sea.

        2.7.2 Songbirds inhabit the forests and fields of Calia, attracted by
        the abundant wildflowers whose seeds are their principal food.

    2.8 Some Calian naturalists have recorded the habits and characteristics of
    native insects.

        2.8.1 Humblebugs are so named because of their unusual posture, head to
        the ground in a perpetual close-up search for food, which makes them
        seem to be bowing.

        2.8.2 Bees live in hives ranging from a few decimeters in diameter to
        vast complexes spread over many meters.

        2.8.3 Poisonous biting centipedes are a threat only if one enters the
        deep, dank caverns where they dwell.

        2.8.4 Flocks of butterflies have always been one of the great natural
        beauties of Calia, and the Landscaping Department is determined to
        preserve the wildflowers upon which they and songbirds depend.


                            Volume 3:  Early History


    3.1 The ancient name of this land was Gelanova, and it was inhabited by
    many races who shared a quiet, cooperative existence.

        3.1.1 The name comes from a combination of words meaning "leaves" and
        "vines," the dominant vegetation before the Dim Time.

        3.1.2 Farming was a matter of planting a few seeds and waiting for an
        abundant harvest.

        3.1.3 Meat was provided either by domestic animals or notoriously easy
        to slay game animals.

    3.2 There was no common system of religious beliefs, but most respected the
    Kyrullian Order whose ceremonies were credited with maintaining the land's
    fertility and agreeable climate.

        3.2.1 The Kyrullian Order was a mystical community of enchanters.

        3.2.2 They promoted the concept of the "common good" in which the
        diverse residents of the land could benefit by cooperating rather than
        competing.

        3.2.3 Kyrullians were the only residents before the Dim Time who are
        known to have regularly travelled the length and breadth of the land.

        3.2.4 The arrival of a Kyrullian was an important event in the life of a
        village, not only for the honor conferred by such an important visitor,
        but for the opportunity to hear news and stories from faraway places.

    3.3 Little formal education was available, and much of the population was
    illiterate.

        3.3.1 Skills necessary for farming and trades were passed on locally,
        and thus work habits, tools, and methods of organizing labor varied
        considerably from village to village.

        3.3.2 While reading and writing were not common skills, folklore and
        history was preserved in memorized song, story, and verse.

    3.4 There was no cohesive culture other than the teachings of the
    Kyrullians.

        3.4.1 Even between neighboring villages there were often distinct
        customs in dress and language.

        3.4.2 Organizations such as granges and unions were formed to manage
        agricultural and mercantile affairs, but most only exerted influence
        over a few adjacent villages or other small territory.

        3.4.3 Kyrullians acted as arbiters for serious disputes, although
        folklore tells of occasional conflicts that developed into
        long-standing feuds or even ended in duels.

    3.5 No members of the sect survived the First Conflagration, and almost
    nothing is left of their teachings.

        3.5.1 We know that they called upon supernatural forces called the
        Elementals.

        3.5.2 Their rituals involved the use of glyphs, symbols representing
        various forms of power.

        3.5.3 A few glyphs have been discovered, and there are rumors that some
        Calians have managed to reintroduce a tiny bit of their magic.


                            Volume 4:  The Dim Time


    4.1 The name "Dim Time" stems both from the loss of learning that resulted
    and the appearance of an obscuring mist around Mt. Kyrus which cast its
    shadow across much of the land.

    4.2 The beginning of the Dim Time was marked by the eruption of Mt. Pyros
    in the Thalassian Sea, about 350 years BC (Before Confederation).

        4.2.1 The fire, smoke, and ash drew the attention of distant mariners.

        4.2.2 An occasional ship visited the coast, and tales of a friendly,
        hospitable land spread across the seas.

        4.2.3 Invasion by sea-faring warriors followed shortly thereafter,
        mostly by barbarians who arrived in longboats and landed all along the
        west coast.

        4.2.4 Since the coastal plain was poorly defended, the focus of the
        stories told about this land turned from generous hospitality to easy
        plunder.

    4.3 Soldiers of fortune were attracted here.

        4.3.1 Some offered their services as leaders, trainers, and armorers

        4.3.2 Others sought merely to conquer a bit of territory for
        themselves.

    4.4 Under the stress of warfare for the first time in memory, the
    population of Gelanova divided itself into many competing groups.

        4.4.1 Hostilities emerged across racial lines, resulting in the bitter
        division that is now known as the Schism of Races.

        4.4.2 Both invaders and natives used racial prejudices to amass armies,
        at first small, leading to the rise of warlords.

    4.5 The Scribes of Calia divide the history of warlords into early, middle,
    and late periods, beginning approximately 300, 150, and 50 years BC.

        4.5.1 Early warlords controlled small territories and their rules were
        generally short.

            4.5.1.1 Yeck the It was among the most bizarre of all warlords.

                4.5.1.1.1 Yeck's race, gender, and description are all unknown.

                4.5.1.1.2 Yeck would not even be recorded in these Chronicles
                if so many cryptic references to it were not preserved in
                journals, stories, and even graffiti carved with great effort
                into the faces of huge stones in northeastern Calia.

                4.5.1.1.3 While tales of its exploits are conflicting and
                vague, Yeck apparently held firm control of a small, narrow
                valley in the northeast for a considerable time.

                4.5.1.1.4 Evidence of Yeck's dominance ends mysteriously during
                the middle period, and its final disposition is unknown.

            4.5.1.2 Skew the Gorer was the most successful of the early human
            warlords.

                4.5.1.2.1 He was notorious for disposing of enemies in
                diabolically gruesome ways, both on the battlefield and in his
                prison.

                4.5.1.2.2 According to legend, he came from a land where war
                had raged for centuries, and he brought to Gelanova a powerful
                army and a ruthlessness which the natives could never have
                imagined.

                4.5.1.2.3 Eventually his ferocity and cruelty were his end, as
                his own troops, revolted by behavior that many considered
                beneath the warriors' code, rebelled against him and killed him
                in his own torture chamber.

            4.5.1.3 In the history of Indalan, a cunning and opportunistic elf,
            can be found the rise and fall of archers in this land.

                4.5.1.3.1 Indalan's lightly-armoured elven archers attacked in
                waves, approaching, firing their arrows, and then retreating
                before the enemy ever came within striking distance.

                4.5.1.3.2 When the enemy was sufficiently worn down by the
                archers, Indalan's motley but well-armed brigade of mercenaries
                would move in for the kill.

                4.5.1.3.3 These tactics succeeded until an army equipped with
                immense shields managed to repel the archers' attack, remaining
                intact and no easy target for the mercenaries.

                4.5.1.3.4 The mercenaries soon drifted into the ranks of more
                successful warlords, and Indalan's army dispersed.

        4.5.2 The middle-period warlords managed to carve out enduring
        territories and establish cohesive armies that could be passed on to
        their successors.

        4.5.3 A few of the more successful late- and middle-period warlords
        commissioned scribes to record their adventures, and their histories
        are preserved in these Chronicles.

            4.5.3.1 Gnome Benobodrome occupied a small plateau in the northeast
            that was easy to defend from forces below, and managed to control
            it well into the time of the Quartan.

            4.5.3.2 Hermione led many of her fellow captives in an escape from
            Benobodrome's plateau.

                4.5.3.2.1 She formed a nomadic, all-female band of renegades
                known as the Shrews.

                4.5.3.2.2 Seeking survival rather than conquest, they managed
                to control a small territory, whose boundaries were in constant
                flux, while avoiding direct confrontation the major warlords.

        4.5.4 During the middle period, the Veiling darkened the land and
        marked the end of the influence of the Kyrullians.

            4.5.4.1 The peaceful Kyrullians, no match for the military skills of
            the invaders and unable to stem the tide of violence that swept
            through the native population, retreated to the strongholds atop
            Mt. Kyrus.

            4.5.4.2 A great wind swept across the land, tearing trees out of
            the ground, blowing over houses, and even cracking the face of Mt.
            Kyrus.

            4.5.4.3 When the violent storm subsided, the top of Mt. Kyrus
            remained ringed in a perpetual dense mist, and soon thereafter the
            appearance of new islands in the Thalassian Sea was reported.

        4.5.5 As if the land were not already sufficiently burdened, during the
        entire Dim Time fanatics repeatedly appeared, claiming bizarre
        abilities or offering outlandish "solutions" to the suffering
        population.

            4.5.5.1 The Penitent Few believed that the war was a punishment
            inflicted on them for some grievous sin, and hoped to end the
            strife by doing public penance.

            4.5.5.2 The Brown-Nose League sought safety in appeasement.

            4.5.5.3 Les Poseurs Formidables tried to intimidate invaders with a
            hollow show of bravado; only the most feebleminded were fooled.

            4.5.5.4 The Poxers created a panic as they deliberately infected
            themselves with a dreaded disease, sacrificing themselves in an
            attempt to frighten away the invading barbarians.

            4.5.5.5 - 4.7.??  Anyone who has knowledge of other cults in Calia
            should bring them to the attention of the Scribes for inclusion in
            the Chronicles!

        4.5.6 The late period begins about 50 years BC with the formation of
        the Quartan, the alliance of the four most powerful warlords who ruled
        the land until the time of Caliana.

        4.5.7 The history of the Quartan is detailed in Volume 5, but several
        other important warlords were active during the late period.

            4.5.7.1 Bacco Irontoe commanded a swift-moving army of hobbits in
            the northern forests, adept both at quick, surprise strikes and at
            laying clever traps for their enemies.

            4.5.7.2 The four elven Kolodni Brothers commanded battalions that
            attacked in well-coordinated patterns from multiple directions,
            using their superior formations to defeat larger opponents.

            4.5.7.3 - ?? Anyone with knowledge of other warlords during the
            early or middle periods is encouraged to submit their information,
            however sketchy, for inclusion in the Chronicles.

    4.6 Unknown to most of the population, the remnants of a foreign
    civilization, fleeing persecution in their native land, found their way
    here during the Dim Time.

        4.6.1 Good fortune greeted them, for they quickly found an isolated
        valley in which they could rebuild their culture without interference.

        4.6.2 Once they had blocked the only entrance to the valley by starting
        a massive landslide, their new land, which they named Argos, was
        inaccessible to outsiders.

        4.6.3 Only recently have the Argosians cleared the entrance to their
        valley and allowed outsiders to enter through a great gate.

        4.6.4 The Argosians, to varying degrees, remain distrustful of
        visitors; little of their story is recorded in the Chronicles, but more
        can be read about them in their own great library.


                     Volume 5:  The Struggle for Dominance


    5.1 The Dim Time ended in the First Conflagration, the name for the
    concerted and ruthless efforts of a few strong warlords to annihilate all
    opposition.

    5.2 After the demise of the Kyrullians and the complete dissolution of any
    semblance of order, the leaders of some well-armed and well-positioned
    armies saw the chance to consolidate power and perhaps even establish a
    dynasty.

    5.3 Masthron the goblin warlord had his stronghold in the rocky northern
    hills, near a sparse pine forest.

        5.3.1 The ravenous goblin troops devoured everything, including their
        captives.

        5.3.2 Masthron's army defeated Bacco Irontoe, most powerful of the
        hobbit warlords.

        5.3.3 Bacco's troops were corralled in preparation for their being
        served as dinner, but Bacco challenged Masthron to a favorite goblin
        game:  crotch-kicking.

        5.3.4 Masthron's strength and superior constitution gave him an early
        edge, but Bacco managed one deft and destructive kick with his
        sharpened iron toe.

        5.3.5 An escape ensued which began a series of events that would
        eventually lead to Masthron's downfall.

        5.3.6 The iron toe was put in a special place as a valuable souvenir
        which Masthron contemplated at length.

    5.4 Oslewt the gnome built a stone fortress at the edge of Lake Lantia.

        5.4.1 Her army was equipped with remarkably high-quality armour and
        weapons and was well trained in their use.

        5.4.2 The gnome army possessed a few weapons of formidable power, the
        most intimidating of which was Oslewt's own Phobic Probe, a wicked,
        penetrating polearm.

    5.5 Hucker the dwarf's army camped solidly in the middle of the land not
    far from Mt. Kyrus.

        5.5.1 The dwarven army's advantages were central placement and
        mobility.

        5.5.2 By using the lower levels of Mt. Kyrus as observation posts, the
        army could quickly move into an ideal position to intercept any
        approaching enemy.

    5.6 Zarr the human built his stronghold in the dense southern forests,
    adding traps and moats to natural formations of cliffs, hills, and streams
    to forge nearly impenetrable defenses.

        5.6.1 The humans cleared areas of the forest to grow crops and
        livestock, and mined valuable ores from the cliffs to the east.

        5.6.2 Each field, pasture, mine, and quarry was kept to a modest size,
        clearly marked, and assigned to a particular squad to supervise.

        5.6.3 Rather than kill their enemies, the soldiers employed skilled
        captives in the manufacture of weapons and armour, and the unskilled
        were forced to till the fields and tend the livestock.

    5.7 It was Hucker who first suggested an alliance of the four major powers.

        5.7.1 Hucker could observe the relative strengths and positions of the
        four great armies, and he determined that no one was strong enough to
        conquer the others.

        5.7.2 He also noted the drain on his army and on the other three armies
        that was inflicted by the skirmishes with minor forces.

        5.7.3 He sent emissaries to the other three warlords, who were
        impressed with the dwarves' knowledge of each army's strength and
        deployment.

        5.7.4 The four warlords negotiated through emissaries warily, unable to
        agree on a forum for all to meet, until Hucker finally suggested they
        get together for a game of Omber.

        5.7.5 Omber was an ancient game they all knew, and its rules dictated a
        strict decorum that ensured that all could participate as equals.

        5.7.6 With persistence, persuasion, and a few gifts, Hucker managed to
        get the other warlords to agree to meet on the plains and talk of their
        futures over a game of Omber.

    5.8 The warlords met daily in a great tent erected on the grassy fields
    south of Mt. Kyrus and west of Lake Lantia.

        5.8.1 In sight of forward elements of Oslewt's, Hucker's, and Zarr's
        armies, and with Masthron's impressive escort of conspicuously huge
        goblin warriors, none of the warlords had any opportunity to make a
        move against the others.

        5.8.2 An entire week was spent settling the rules under which they
        would sit down to play the game.

        5.8.3 Eventually, they began play in earnest, and as trust developed
        among the four, they discussed details of a possible treaty.

    5.9 The announcement of the Omber Dominion was met with jubilation in the
    four warlords' camps.

        5.9.1 An unspoken but pervasive worry among all the troops had been the
        possibility of a protracted war of attrition among the main powers.

        5.9.2 The news spread out among the troops like waves from a stone
        thrown into a pond; goblin messengers, with guarantee of safe passage
        through Hucker's territory, took the news north.

    5.10 The four great warlords became a war council, called the Quartan,
    which set about eliminating all possible rivals to their power.

        5.10.1 The four major armies developed a tactic of assaulting an enemy
        from several directions at once, usually with the tireless goblins
        chasing the prey into a pocket formed by the other three.

        5.10.2 Kroug's own forces, under the direction of his generals, were
        particularly effective in using small, highly coordinated teams to
        break up the enemy's formations.

        5.10.3 Minor warlords who resisted were eliminated; the smart ones
        joined with one of the armies of the Quartan.

        5.10.4 The Quartan was extraordinarily successful, and soon all
        significant resistance to the alliance was crushed.

    5.11 Once control was firmly established, the Quartan turned its attention
    to the administration of its territory.

        5.11.1 Idleness among the troops led to skirmishes between factions of
        their armies.

        5.11.2 Officers filled some of their time by playing Omber, but fights
        and accusations often resulted, sometimes leading to deaths.

        5.11.3 The four armies, who had fought side-by-side during the
        conquest, began to withdraw into their own territories.

        5.11.4 The Quartan continued to observe the peace among themselves, but
        with increasing suspicion.

    5.12 After the death of Zarr (explained further in Kroug), the Omber
    Dominion gradually transformed into four separate domains with little
    cooperation between the main warlords.

        5.12.1 Goryn, Zarr's second son, took over command of his army for a
        period of about 40 years and his place in the Quartan, and ruled
        effectively enough to prevent encroachment by the other warlords.

        5.12.2 While he did not lose territory, he did lose the confidence of
        some officers and troops, notably most of the elven contingent, who
        slipped away into the forest during border patrols.

    5.13 Goryn made one last compact with the others of the Quartan - to
    provide his elder brother safe passage from the coast to the southern
    forest upon his return from his travels abroad.

        5.13.1 Kroug returned from abroad, and the aura of dark magic
        surrounding him was evident even to the goblins.

        5.13.2 Hucker, Masthron, and Oslewt recognized the threat of Kroug and
        conspired to cause his "accidental" death.

        5.13.3 Kroug discovered their treachery and, using his spells of
        confusion and influence, sowed discord among them.

        5.13.4 Kroug replaced Goryn as the leader of the human army upon his
        return to the territory that had been ruled by Zarr.

    5.14 Masthron's hold on power was the first to dissolve, caused as much by
    conflict within his army (described further in Caliana) as from without.

    5.15 The power vacuum left by Masthron's decline required a realignment of
    forces on the continent, and Kroug began his campaign to dominate all of
    the land now known as Calia.


                               Volume 6:  Caliana


    6.1 Caliana was born during the heyday of the Omber Dominion in a small
    village which was later to become Gelan.

        6.1.1 The village lay on a small, flat plain surrounded by a natural
        moat, strategically unimportant and therefore largely ignored by the
        armies that ravaged the rest of the land.

        6.1.2 She enjoyed the simple, traditional life of her people for only a
        few years as war loomed ever closer on the horizon.

        6.1.3 Tall and strong for an elf child, she was a great help to her
        family in acquiring food and other resources as the war created
        scarcities.

    6.2 At about the age of eight, her village, populated by a variety of
    farmers and traders, was raided by the goblin army of Masthron.

        6.2.1 The army was divided into mobs of fighters, each of which was
        headed by a boss.

        6.2.2 After the mobs has plundered the village, they squabbled among
        themselves, as always, for ownership of the loot.

    6.3 Some of the populace were deemed valuable by Masthron and spared.

        6.3.1 Masthron had hoped to employ Raspatoon's magic, but Raspatoon
        confounded him again and again with spells that "almost" worked.

        6.3.2 Ska Muesli the banker was conscripted to handle the army's
        payroll, but he managed to pay himself more than the rest of the army
        combined.

    6.4 Most were consigned to the cooking-pot, as they were deemed unfit for
    military service.

        6.4.1 Caliana's parents were killed during the futile defense of the
        village, but Caliana was captured alive.

        6.4.2 She was delivered to the mess-area to be cooked along with many
        other elves, hobbits, and humans.

    6.5 Odium the Mongrel was the army's chief blacksmith, forging weapons,
    armours, and various tools.

        6.5.1 Odium was, as the warrior Marrock would one day put it, "a goblin
        of singular countenance and demeanor."

        6.5.2 All that is known of his early years is that he wandered into
        Masthron's camp one day from the forest.

        6.5.3 His peculiar appearance, with unusually long arms that dragged on
        the ground when he walked and a stubby tail, elicited derision from the
        other goblins in Masthron's employ.

        6.5.4 Odium found employment as their blacksmith, and he set up his
        forge near the mess area, sometimes even sharing the same fire with the
        cook.

        6.5.5 While the goblin army found him useful, they nonetheless refused
        to socialize with him, and he led a lonely, solitary existence.

    6.6 Odium spotted the young Caliana crying in a corner of the food-pen and
    an opportunity to relieve his incessant loneliness presented itself.

        6.6.1 Hoping that such a small morsel would never be missed, Odium
        snatched Caliana from the food-pen and hid her in his great pile of
        scrap iron.

        6.6.2 Caliana's disappearance from the food-pen was never noticed, and
        the goblin army, hardly interested in the management of the forge, soon
        accepted her as Odium's assistant.

        6.6.3 She was still prone to periods of crying, and Odium soothed her
        tears with sweet treats, sometimes braving the stings of hundreds of
        bees to fetch her a honeycomb.

        6.6.4 Caliana did not have the strength for heavy ironwork, but she was
        a quick study at polishing and honing, and soon she was able to improve
        the quality of the weapons Odium produced.

        6.6.5 As she grew, Odium found other uses for her, especially in
        assessing the capabilities of captured enemy weapons and improving the
        balance and grip of his own.

    6.7 Over the years, Caliana gained both tutoring and practical experience
    in combat, as the remote area devoted to forge and cooking was often raided
    by small parties of freebooters or advance forces from enemy armies.

        6.7.1 As she grew to the age of 17, she developed into a tall and
        beautiful elven woman.

        6.7.2 She drew the attention of the dwarf Bathos, who had joined
        Mathron's army after his own warlord had been defeated.

        6.7.3 After proving his worth in several battles, Bathos was offered
        the position of Boss, which carried with it the privilege of wandering
        about the camp without supervision.

    6.8 Bathos accosted Caliana one day while she was searching for herbs in
    the forest.

        6.8.1 She managed to free herself from his grasp and flee back to the
        mess-area.

        6.8.2 There Bathos and several of his dwarven fellows surrounded her.

        6.8.3 Caliana killed him with Odium's huge iron cooking spoon, which
        she wielded expertly and used to parry Bathos' every axe blow.

    6.9 News of the killing of Bathos was quickly shouted though the camp, and
    while Caliana made a mad dash for the river, hoping to swim to freedom, the
    perimeter guards captured her.

    6.10 When she was brought before Masthron, Odium was already there,
    claiming that he had killed Bathos.

        6.10.1 Caliana admitted killing him, and several witnesses also shouted
        in agreement.

        6.10.2 Other dwarves, not wanting to concede that an elven woman had
        killed mighty Bathos, claimed that they had seen Odium kill him.

    6.11 Masthron made the wisest decision a goblin could make:  he ordered
    both of them put to the trial.

        6.11.1 Goblin justice was rather primitive:  put the accused to a test
        which could not possibly be survived, and you don't have to worry about
        an appeal.

        6.11.2 Masthron felt certain that this elven woman would be of no help
        to Odium, so he sent them together to the trial.

    6.12 The trial consisted of throwing the prisoners into a geyser which
    erupted at regular intervals.

        6.12.1 The hole from which the geyser erupted was deep with smooth
        sides, so climbing out was impossible.

        6.12.2 This hole was quiet and empty most of the time, but once a day
        it suddenly and violently filled with steam and boiling water.

        6.12.3 After the eruption, the goblins would lower a rope so the
        "survivors" could be pulled out, but in all their history they had
        never seen anyone escape death by scalding.

    6.13 After the eruption, the goblins lowered the rope as usual, making
    various grotesque comments about how they hope these tasty boiled morsels
    can be retrieved with hooks.

        6.13.1 Caliana and Odium climbed out unharmed!

        6.13.2 In a new twist on goblin justice, Caliana and Odium were both
        declared innocent of murder, and the goblin scribe dutifully changed
        the record of Bathos to show that he still lived.

    6.14 With no precedent for prisoners surviving the trial, Masthron was
    dumbfounded by their success and could think of no better result than to
    accept Caliana into his army.

        6.14.1 When no Boss would accept Caliana as a fighter, Masthron decreed
        that she could be her own Boss, and Odium became her first fighter.

        6.14.2 Marrock and Krom, two human conscripts, saw an opportunity to
        arrange an escape for themselves and their comrades, and they convinced
        many humans, as well as a few others, to join Caliana.

    6.15 Caliana's mob was derisively called the Flies or Worms by the other
    goblins.

        6.15.1 All mobs in Masthron's army bore the insignia of an animal -
        lion, bear, dragon, etc.

        6.15.2 Caliana chose the wolf as her symbol.

        6.15.3 The goblin Bosses continued to ridicule her troops and refused
        to call them the Wolves, and as the newest and smallest of the Bosses,
        Caliana was in no position to object.

        6.15.4 Some of her followers got into fights over the name, but Marrock
        proved to be a stabilizing influence, persuading them to bide their
        time and ignore the taunting of the goblins.

    6.16 Few goblins joined Caliana's mob, with the result that the Wolves
    found themselves ill-suited to execute standard goblin battle tactics.

        6.16.1 Typical goblin attacks were in a single wave which was designed
        to assault the enemy over such a wide front that any weak points in his
        line would crack immediately.

        6.16.2 Goblin tactics had little provision for defensive maneuvers
        other than to run away en masse if the tide of battle turned against
        them.

    6.17 Caliana devised tactics better suited to her small but highly
    maneuverable mob, and from their resemblance to the coordinated tactics of
    the golden wolves of the nearby forest, her followers began to refer to
    themselves as the Wolf Pack.

        6.17.1 The Pack attacked in a tight formation, making many of its
        members difficult targets for enemy weapons.

        6.17.2 The formations also obscured the movement of some members from
        the enemy, allowing them to execute flanking maneuvers and strike at
        the enemy from the side or rear.

    6.18 The Pack distinguished itself in several skirmishes as it refined its
    battle tactics.

        6.18.1 Of particular interest to Masthron was the Pack's low casualty
        rate.

        6.18.2 Other bosses, jealous of the attention given to Caliana, began
        to circulate rumors that the Pack was taking on only the weakest and
        least-defended targets.

        6.18.3 Masthron was swayed by these rumors and decided to let the Pack
        play a special role in the next big battle.

    6.19 Masthron attacked the hobbit warlord Bacco, whose troops were firmly
    entrenched in the pine forest to the northeast.

        6.19.1 The hobbits used the trees to their advantage, felling many and
        making obstacles to trip and block the clumsy goblins during their
        charges.

        6.19.2 A frontal assault by the goblins found weaknesses in the hobbit
        lines, but the breaches were sealed too quickly for any advantage to be
        won.

        6.19.3 Masthron sent the Wolf Pack into the fray, ordering them to
        drive a wedge into the hobbit lines.

    6.20 Caliana's mob charged, but split into two groups as it neared the
    enemy.

        6.20.1 A small tight group of humans and goblins, led by Odium, drove
        straight for the hobbits while the rest of the Pack feigned retreat.

        6.20.2 After taking only slight damage, the forward group began to fall
        back, but slowly.

        6.20.3 Sensing an easy kill, a section of the hobbit line moved forward
        to surround this group, exposing their own flanks.

        6.20.4 Odium and his group drove forward, slamming hard into the middle
        of the enemy line, stunning it with tremendous blows, and engaging at
        such close quarters that the hobbits were unable to maneuver.

        6.20.5 Caliana's main force wheeled and drove into the flanks and fell
        upon them, as Odium observed, like a "swarm of bees."

        6.20.6 They opened huge breaches in the hobbit line through which the
        bulk of Masthron's army poured.

    6.21 Having routed the hobbits, the goblins set about plundering and
    slaughtering.

        6.21.1 The goblin bosses let their troops kill the hobbits wholesale in
        anticipation of feasting on them.

        6.21.2 Caliana, however, forbade her Pack to kill its prisoners, and
        also forbade them to hunt down those who managed to run away.

        6.21.3 Masthron was incensed at this breach of goblin tradition until
        he realized that among her prisoners was the illustrious Bacco Irontoe
        himself.

    6.22 In an attempt to save the hobbits who had been captured by Caliana,
    Bacco challenged Masthron to a contest to decide if they lived or died.

        6.22.1 Masthron was amused by the slight hobbit's challenge, and he
        agreed to settle the matter with a favorite goblin sport.

        6.22.2 The contest was set for the evening of that same day, just
        before the great victory feast; the players would compete in front of
        the big boiling cauldron in which the hobbits were to be cooked.

        6.22.3 Caliana's defense of the hobbit prisoners only intensified the
        other bosses' distrust of her and her Pack.

    6.23 The contest would be a simple game of crotch-kicking.

        6.23.1 The contest was conducted in the usual manner - whoever was the
        first to fall over and be unable to stand after a count of three would
        lose.

        6.23.2 Both players and the spectators, other than the hobbit prisoners
        and the Wolf Pack guarding them, drank heavily before and during the
        competition.

        6.23.3 Masthron forfeited a vital piece of anatomy but was still able
        to stand (in fact, he then had quite an advantage in future games).

        6.23.4 Bacco lost and was killed on the spot; Masthron took his iron
        toe as a souvenir.

        6.23.5 Drunk and incensed by his injury, Masthron ordered Caliana and
        her followers executed and served with the hobbits in a mixed grill.

    6.24 Caliana and the hobbit prisoners instantly realized that their only
    hope lay in joining forces for an escape.

        6.24.1 Her forces were still heavily outnumbered by the rest of the
        goblin army.

        6.24.2 However, they had the advantages of sobriety and being in
        possession of their weapons.

    6.25 Odium overturned the cauldron, scalding and scattering many goblins,
    and over the uproar bellowed "swarm, swarm!"

        6.25.1 Caliana's mob understood his cry instantly, and they repeated
        the wheeling maneuvers that had been successful earlier in the day,
        sweeping into the disorganized goblins before they could form a battle
        line.

        6.25.2 In the confusion, the hobbits were able to retrieve a good
        number of weapons from the pile of loot in the center of the camp.

    6.26 Caliana's mob made a dash for the pine forest with the goblin army in
    hot pursuit.

        6.26.1 The hobbits' knowledge of the terrain gave them an edge in
        evading the goblin army.

        6.26.2 The drunken goblins inflicted a few casualties, but the bulk of
        the Pack made it to the forest where they disappeared into the shadows
        under the dense canopy.

        6.26.3 They realized that the goblins would soon regroup and begin
        hunting them down, and that it was imperative to find a safe haven.

    6.27 Caliana addressed her followers, telling them that there was no
    turning back.

        6.27.1 She offered to lead all who would follow to safety; all who
        would not follow her were free to make their own way.

        6.27.2 All agreed that their best chance for survival was to follow
        Caliana.

        6.27.3 They marched to the northeast until they were exhausted, and
        even a bit further as Odium carried the first few to drop.

    6.28 As they rested, a hobbit survivor named Elvira, an educated officer
    and the daughter of a scribe, gave Caliana a gift in thanks for saving her
    life:  her mother's precious onyx pen, a bottle of ink, and a small
    leather-bound journal.

        6.28.1 The hobbit figured that Caliana was likely to survive the
        longest of all, and she asked her to record the events that befell the
        Pack as it sought safe haven.

        6.28.2 Caliana promised to do so, and the contents of her journal are
        now known as The Passage.


                             Volume 7:  The Passage


    7.1 The Pack marches east until they reach the forest edge, where their
    progress is stopped by a wide river.

    7.2 The hobbits warn against moving farther north into a densely wooded
    valley, and with no means of fording the river and the goblins closing in
    from the west and south, they make rafts and float down the river, flowing
    mostly east, toward the unknown.

    7.3 First day of the  trip - it looks like the goblin army has been left
    far behind.

    7.4 Second day of raft trip - salty smell at sunset makes them suspect that
    they are approaching a sea; while camped on shore, Caliana is able to make
    a lengthy journal entry about the past few day's experiences.

    7.5 The river dwindles as it turns southeast through a bleak landscape; the
    rafts are abandoned as the Pack continues on foot.

    7.6 The group east toward some distant mountains, finding enough sustenance
    from the local plants.

    7.7 They meet Hurn, a young but white-haired human, and Murl Brightwater, a
    hobbit with flame-red hair, who tell the story of their shipwreck here and
    their survival by hunting and fishing.

    7.8 Some of Caliana's followers express doubts about Hurn and Murl.

    7.9 Hurn warns of danger further southeast; Marrock and Krom figure he's
    hiding something and advise a search of the area.

    7.10 The Shrews capture the search party.

    7.11 Caliana confronts the Shrews, who respect her as a fellow female
    warrior and are impressed that she leads such a varied Pack.  They lead her
    north to their headquarters.

    7.12 Hermione tells the history of the Shrews.

    7.13 The Shrews and the Pack build some trust and share their experiences
    in East Calia.

    7.14 Hermione gives Caliana a gift of a lance made from blue cypress.  Hurn
    provides Caliana with a suitable token to exchange - his fine military
    cutlass.

    7.15 The meager resources of the Shrews' territory will not support the
    Wolf Pack, and the hosts are uneasy about the presence of so many male
    warriors despite the general mutual trust which has been built.

    7.16 The Pack heads south with the Shrew guide Beauwyn, a young dwarf, who
    will lead them south away from the large armies in the adjacent hills and
    forests.

    7.17 The Pack passes through the strange landscape of East Calia and stops
    to rest in the Stonewood, a vast petrified forest.  Murl tells a story
    about the scary darkness known as Night, which most of the Pack have never
    seen.

    7.18 Caliana discovers the strange fruits of the Stonewood.

    7.19 The Pack continues through the Stonewood; food supplies are low.

    7.20 A few large game animals appear and are killed and eaten.  Hurn
    assures Caliana that such occurrences are rare.

    7.21 There is much talk of turning back north or to the west.  Beauwyn
    assures them that they are on the right path.

    7.22 More game animals mysteriously appear just when they're needed;
    everyone is suspicious.  Murl tells a story of the dazzling Birds of
    Paradise she has seen in her travels.  Caliana has a strange dream in which
    she imagines herself a Bird of Paradise.

    7.23 The Pack explores in small scouting parties.

    7.24 Caliana encounters the *Dark Traveller, who invites the Pack to feast
    with his small company.

    7.25 The Dark Traveller, who never reveals his name, hosts the Pack for
    dinner.  His ability to provide a sumptuous feast even though he has few in
    his company and no visible stores arouses great anxiety.

    7.26 The Dark Traveller invites the Pack to join with him and come to his
    stronghold in the southeast.  He gives Caliana a fine filigreed sword as a
    token of respect, and Caliana is ready to offer her blue *cypress lance,
    but only if the Traveller will reveal his name.  He declines, and she
    withholds the lance.

    7.27 The pack travels south, and there is suspicion that some of the
    Traveller's men are following and spying on them.

    7.28 A wild boar attacks Murl; Marrock comes to the rescue.  Murl doesn't
    seem to be much of a fighter.  The slaughtered boar makes for excellent
    eating as Murl shows off her culinary skills.

    7.29 The Pack moves on, refreshed by both the fine meal and the change in
    landscape, which leaves the Stonewood behind and leads over tricky terrain
    to green landscape in the distance.  Avoiding the steep mountain range to
    the southeast, the Pack moves southwest.

    7.30 A unfamiliar gray fungus appears on several pieces of armour and
    weapons; for now, it is only a nuisance and is easily washed off.

    7.31 The trail southwest leads to a live forest, and food supplies become
    plentiful again.

    7.32 The Pack moves deeper into the forest; travel is slow, but there is no
    hurry.

    7.33 They find a lush valley, wooded and laced with many small streams, an
    excellent place to rest.

    7.34 There is much talk of settling here; Caliana sends parties out to
    scout the nearby areas.  Hurn teaches rudesong to some male members of the
    Pack.

    7.35 Murl tells a story about the Moon.

    7.36 Marrock disappears; some of the scouting parties are late to return.

    7.37 Marrock returns, injured by the fungus and telling of the trail of
    destruction that it has left all the way from the Stonewood.

    7.38 Caliana observes the destruction herself and realizes that the fungus
    must have been spread by the Wolf Pack.  She feels she must take some
    action, lest the fungus destroy the entire forest.

    7.39 Marrock experiments with the fungus and determines that it will burn
    easily.

    7.40 The fire burns the fungus while sparing the bulk of the well-watered
    forest.  It also flushes out Doe, a young elven woman who had been spying
    on them.  She explains that her lover, Allerdice, had been captured by
    "Kroug's men," as she puts it, and she begs the Pack to help her rescue him
    before "he is beyond rescue."

    7.41 Caliana is reticent to take on this unknown enemy, but Beauwyn
    immediately pledges her support to a fellow courageous female.  Caliana
    asks for more details, then plots a strategy to rescue Allerdice.

    7.42 Caliana makes some final notes before the battle of Toad-in-Oak
    begins.  The journal is then hidden in a hollow tree, along with a few
    other precious personal items that members of the Pack wish to preserve.

    7.43 No entry.

    7.44 No entry.

    7.45 Caliana records the events of the past two days:
         The Pack moves in to surround the elven village of Toad-in-Oak, now
         controlled by the enemy.  They free Allerdice and other prisoners who
         had been bundled for delivery to Kroug, and kill many of the enemy
         soldiers.  Allerdice explains what has been happening, and Caliana
         realizes who the Dark Traveller really was.  Caliana notices Odium's
         fighting style in the battle at Toad-in-Oak and asks Odium to teach it
         to other Pack members.

    7.46 Understanding how large and powerful Kroug's army must be, Caliana
    turns the Pack due west at a fast pace.  They come upon the Lumberjacks.
    Beauwyn arranges for them to rest a day there, then departs north to rejoin
    the Shrews.  Krom and Odium argue over battle tactics.

    7.47 Odium teaches maul technique to Krom.

    7.48 Buckhorn the Lumberjack tells the story of Tarawak, founder of the
    guild and erstwhile prisoner of Kroug.

    7.49 The Pack continues west.  Stealthily crossing a low mountain range,
    the catch a glimpse of Oslewt's gnome army and its stone fortress near Lake
    Lantia.  Odium and Krom teach maul technique to Hurn and Marrock.

    7.50 The pack is attacked by a small patrol of krougs.  Hurn is the hero,
    wading into their formation and mauling it into pieces the rest of the pack
    can dispose of.  Caliana calls him "my great white wolf."  Marrock rescues
    Murl, whose defensive skills are sorely lacking.

    7.51 Allerdice and Doe show Caliana secret passages and hiding places so
    that they may evade further kroug patrols, and they pledge to join the Wolf
    Pack.  They had planned to marry as soon as possible, but Kroug is their
    sworn enemy; they will wait until the fight against him is won.

    7.52 Many in the Pack want to become maulers, but Marrock reminds them that
    their strength lies in their swarming attack.

    7.53 Hurn tells of the Maritime Guild in Gelan, which the Pack can count on
    for assistance, and more details of his mysterious shipwreck in the harbor
    there.  Caliana recognizes the place he is describing as the tiny village
    of her birth.

    7.54 Caliana counsels with her wisest companions and decides to head the
    Pack for the coast.  Marrock finds a white pumpkin.

    7.55 The Pack takes a northwesterly route to avoid the open plains and take
    advantage of cover in the Great Central Forest.

    7.56 A skirmish with a patrol from Hucker's dwarven army turns the Pack
    northward at a fast pace.

    7.57 Having evaded the dwarves, the Pack camps in a secluded bend of a low
    mountain range, waiting for foul weather.

    7.58 When heavy rains come, the Pack can cross the mountains without being
    spotted by Hucker's sentries.

    7.59 The Pack arrives in an undefended coastal village.  Despite many
    changes due to the ravages of previous goblin occupation, Caliana
    recognizes it as her home.

    7.60 The Pack negotiates with the locals and takes up residence in the
    town, which they name Gelan.


                                Volume 8:  Gelan


    8.1 Prior to the Dim Time, the village was one of many small communities of
    merchants surrounded by farms and forest.

        8.1.1 As with so many villages, there was little use for a name, and
        the location was often referred to by the natives' word for "home" or
        "here."

        8.1.2 Although there was an excellent natural harbor here, there was
        little shipping or travel before the wars.

        8.1.3 The fledgling Maritime Guild, founded by warriors who had grown
        weary of endless and senseless campaigns, increased the size and
        diversity of the population.

    8.2 Caliana's arrival with her warriors marks the beginning of modern
    Gelan.

        8.2.1 Rather than conquer the village, she offered to assist with its
        defense in return for food and lodging for her company.

        8.2.2 With protection from Caliana's forces and some wealth generated
        by the Maritime Guild's commerce, the village grew into a town with a
        need for both a government and a name.

        8.2.3 A mayor was chosen, and remembering the ancient name of the land
        before the wars, he dubbed the town Gelan with the approval of its
        citizens.

        8.2.4 The goblin army of Masthron had been shifted east by their
        pursuit of the Pack, so there was a period of nearly a year in which
        there was no serious military threat.

        8.2.5 As word of the opportunities for trade in a well-guarded town
        spread, traders and craftsmen began to arrive and set up shop.

    8.3 In the early days of the Pack's residence in Gelan, commerce was good,
    and the citizens had time for pleasurable pursuits.

        8.3.1 Word of the town's prosperity eventually reached the ears of the
        warlords.

        8.3.2 As Kroug advanced in the far southeast, other warlords retreated
        north, and Gelan became a target.

    8.4 Hucker was the first to attempt to add Gelan to his territory.

        8.4.1 Caliana's troops not only repulsed Hucker's advance, but they
        managed to clear his observers from the lower levels of Mt. Kyrus,
        leaving him vulnerable to surprise attack from several directions.

        8.4.2 The upper levels of Mt. Kyrus remained shrouded in a dense mist,
        and none dared venture into it, so the lower slopes remained the
        strategic high ground with clear views of vast plains and forests.

    8.5 Gelan remained the center of activity for Caliana's warriors.

        8.5.1 Gelan became famous for its high-quality arms and armour.

        8.5.2 Caliana ordered the building of a road from the moors to the base
        of Mt. Kyrus so that her observers could be kept supplied and
        reinforced.

    8.6 The warriors and the residents of Gelan enjoyed another brief period of
    peace.

        8.6.1 No warlord dared attack the feared warriors of Caliana.

        8.6.2 The town prospered further by developing foreign trade, notably
        in the export of timber.

        8.6.3 Goods were transported to the nearby Thalassian Islands, which
        also prospered from the shipping business, from which they were sent
        overseas to distant lands.

        8.6.4 The time of prosperity drew to a close with the rise to power of
        Caliana's greatest enemy:  Kroug.


                                Volume 9:  Kroug


    9.1 Kroug's father, Zarr, tutored his son at an early age in the ways of
    warlords.

        9.1.1 Kroug learned both to fight and to command troops.

        9.1.2 Zarr also taught him about punishment and torture.

    9.2 The dark arts had a special fascination for him.

        9.2.1 At first Zarr encouraged this interest, but soon he was dismayed
        by the amount of time Kroug diverted from other purposes to pursue it.

        9.2.2 Kroug used his magic to strengthen Zarr's military position, but
        Zarr, instead of being appreciative, grew suspicious of his son.

    9.3 Zarr sent the adolescent Kroug in command of a company to wipe out a
    minor warlord, Alamog the elf, who had encamped in the fringe of the
    southern forest.

        9.3.1 Rather than destroy the enemy, Kroug persuaded Alamog to join
        forces with Zarr.

        9.3.2 Upon Kroug's return, Zarr accused Kroug of betrayal, and ordered
        him executed after a sham trial.

    9.4 Zarr's army was thrown into confusion as Kroug's company attempted to
    rescue their commander.

        9.4.1 The other Kolodni brothers brought their forces to bear, flushing
        Zarr from his protected position.

        9.4.2 Kroug, freed from his bonds, captured Zarr and extracted the
        secret from him:  he had known about the three battalions and sent
        Kroug into what he expected would be a fatal trap!

    9.5 What happened inside the fortress next is not recorded, but the next
    day the camp was once again quiet.

        9.5.1 Kroug was gone.

        9.5.2 His younger brother, with the help of the elven brothers, was in
        command of the army.

        9.5.3 Zarr's head was impaled on a pike by the front gate.

    9.6 Thus began Kroug's years of travel, during which he mastered the Dark
    Arts.

        9.6.1 Kroug does not speak of these years.

        9.6.2 A few rumors and tales have been related by newcomers to Calia
        regarding a human known only as the Dark Traveller, and it is believed
        that this Traveller was Kroug on his far-ranging quest to learn the
        secrets of magic from many lands.

    9.7 Kroug returned and took control of the army without question.

        9.7.1 Goryn announced the return of Kroug, turned over command of the
        army to him, and was never seen again.

        9.7.2 His early forays against other warlords used non-humans as the
        advance force, keeping the humans in safer positions.

        9.7.3 After heavy losses among their ranks, non-humans began to
        question Kroug's tactics.

        9.7.4 Through death in battle and at the hands of Kroug's enforcers, as
        well as through some successful desertions, the non-human elements were
        gradually weeded out of the army.

    9.8 While Kroug consolidated his hold on the territory, he converted a
    large part of the fortress into a laboratory in which he perfected his
    magic.

        9.8.1 He performed experiments on both animals and captured enemy
        soldiers, often with grotesque results.

        9.8.2 Eventually he perfected the Spell of Obedience, which permanently
        subjugated the subject's will to Kroug's.

        9.8.3 While the spell was effective and unbreakable, Kroug found a need
        for officers who could think for themselves, and he devised methods of
        obtaining their loyalty without casting spells on them.

    9.9 Kroug established a corps of generals who devised special tactics for
    the troops under their control.

        9.9.1 Steerax was a ferocious and independent soldier of fortune whose
        exploits had taken him into battles in many faraway lands.

            9.9.1.1 Kroug recognized Steerax's cunning and ingenuity and did
            not want to risk diminishing his abilities by casting a spell on
            him.

            9.9.1.2 With promises of wealth and a barony in the inevitable
            Kroug Empire, Steerax pledged allegiance to Kroug and eventually
            took command of nearly a quarter of his army.

        9.9.2 Tarawak arrived from the faraway city of Wattumbria in the land
        of Bam.

            9.9.2.1 After a long and successful career as an officer in the
            Wattumbrian army, he tired of war and resigned.

            9.9.2.2 He had come to these shores intending to live his life in
            solitude in the forests, but he was unaware of the conflict that
            was taking place here.

            9.9.2.3 After several skirmishes and escapes from various armed
            forces, he made friends with a hardy band of lumberjacks.

            9.9.2.4 He taught them enough fighting skills to defend their small
            territory from incursions, and for a while lived the contemplative
            life he had desired.

            9.9.2.5 Kroug wanted this skilled warrior at the head of one of his
            companies, and tried trickery, bribery, and eventually abduction to
            gain his services.

            9.9.2.6 Unwilling to compromise his abilities with the Spell of
            Obedience, Kroug used daily doses of potions and herbs to maintain
            Tarawak's cooperation.

            9.9.2.7 Tarawak led several successful campaigns, but he invariably
            failed Kroug's ultimate test for him, the capture of his old
            comrades the Lumberjacks.

            9.9.2.8 In the process of fine-tuning the magic potions, Kroug
            overestimated Tarawak's mental vigor; his mind came unhinged after
            ingesting a particularly concentrated mixture.

            9.9.2.9 Tarawak escaped into the forest, taking with him fine armor
            and weapons stolen from Kroug; his whereabout are still unknown.

        9.9.3 Razmocudiac was not a formidable man-at-arms, but he was a
        cunning strategist and was given command of specialized teams with
        complex missions.

            9.9.3.1 Trained in a foreign land, he specialized in stealth,
            surprise attacks, and the expert use of terrain for tactical
            advantage.

            9.9.3.2 When non-combatants were sent into the battle, such as
            miners or engineers, they were generally placed in Razmocudiac's
            company to ensure their most effective use.

        9.9.4 The Scribes are certain that there are more generals and other
        officers which merit inclusion in this volume; please advise us of
        anything you have heard about them.

    9.10 Only one non-human retained a prominent position in Kroug's army for
    any length of time:  the great goblin Humjob.

        9.10.1 Humjob killed for the sheer pleasure of killing.

        9.10.2 He loved the smell and sound of battle, and when Kroug would
        dispose of useless prisoners, Humjob would ask him to re-arm them in
        their prison, then wade into their midst to fight them all at once.

        9.10.3 He fought with the heavy spiked chain, a massive, destructive
        weapon.

        9.10.4 He had no head for strategy, and thus could never be a general,
        but because of his great prowess in battle those who followed him
        experienced a great surge in confidence and courage.

    9.11 As his territory and power increased, Kroug made sure to enjoy the
    fruits of his army's labors.

        9.11.1 He built luxurious residence within the heavily armored
        fortress, and filled it with the trappings of a great emperor.

        9.11.2 Captives which he did not induct into this army or kill were
        pressed into the mines, digging for precious stones and metals.

        9.11.3 Similarly, young women were selected for the honor of Kroug's
        personal attention.

    9.12 The most beautiful maiden in the land, Asphodel, was selected to
    become his wife.

        9.12.1 Asphodel was dressed in all the finery of an empress, but these
        were not tokens of love.

        9.12.2 Kroug compelled her to parade in her jewels and silks as a
        symbol of his power and wealth; in private, he had little interest in
        her.

    9.13 Kroug's miners found a few ancient dust-covered eggs in a cavern.

        9.13.1 The eggs were brought to Kroug for inspection.

        9.13.2 Kroug handed Humjob his filigreed sword and bade him crack open
        one of the eggs.

        9.13.3 A strange thick mist emerged and enveloped the sword.

    9.14 Upon examining the sword, Kroug began to understand the magic at work.

        9.14.1 He tried cracking an egg over a large lizard and saw it grow
        into a fearsome monster.

        9.14.2 He cracked one over himself and felt a surge in his conjuring
        abilities.

        9.14.3 With the temporary increase in his strength provided by the
        magic egg, he cast the Spell of Obedience over en entire company of his
        men.

        9.14.4 Kroug sent his miners back to the caverns to retrieve more eggs.

    9.15 Kroug decided to learn more about the magic eggs by using one on
    Asphodel.

        9.15.1 He planned to make her even more beautiful and perpetually
        young, so that he would never need to replace her.

        9.15.2 He cracked the egg over her, but to his amazement she turned
        hideously ugly, an absolute hag!

        9.15.3 Kroug banished her from his sight, and refused to even speak her
        name, calling her instead Anathema.

        9.15.4 Since no one could bear the sight of her, Kroug banished her to
        the caverns from which the eggs had come.

        9.15.5 The miners never did find any more eggs; they returned from the
        caverns in fear, telling of horrible monsters that had chased them
        away.

    9.16 Kroug continued to build his army and enlarge his territory, always
    seeking new forms of magic to increase his personal power.

        9.16.1 In a foray into the northern forests, his troops plundered an
        old church and brought back some tiles bearing strange glyphs.

        9.16.2 The set of glyphs was incomplete, but Kroug was able to decipher
        their message.

        9.16.3 They told of the Behemoth trapped atop the Anvil of Pyros, a
        tall, forbidding mountain in East Calia.

        9.16.4 Kroug left his army in the care of Steerax and, taking only a
        small company of trusted officers, began his journey to the Anvil,
        where he planned to take control of the Behemoth and use it against his
        enemies.

    9.17 The company trekked through the hostile landscape of East Calia, a
    region so inhospitable that only Kroug's magic kept their number intact.

    9.18 Upon arriving at the Anvil of Pyros, the officers made a modest camp
    while Kroug inspected the steep mountainsides.

        9.18.1 The steep walls were pitted and cracked, hinting that a climb up
        one of the sheer faces could be attempted, but the holes were filled
        with a strange fungus.

        9.18.2 The fungus was extremely corrosive, capable of eating into the
        toughest armour, and it ruined any chains or hooks the climbers tried
        to attach to the rock.

        9.18.3 Kroug collected some spores to be added to his warehouse of
        poisons and magical potions and set his officers to scraping the fungus
        away from a narrow strip along which they would eventually make their
        climb.

    9.19 During this time, Kroug became aware of the approach of a renegade
    army led by an elven woman.

        9.19.1 He determined that this woman would be a valuable asset to his
        army, and he devised a plan to lure her toward him.

        9.19.2 He caused some beasts of the forest to travel north where they
        could be found, killed, and eaten by the renegades, and thus persuade
        them that there was good hunting in Kroug's direction.

    9.20 As Caliana approached, Kroug went alone to meet her, lest she be
    tempted to run from a large force.

        9.20.1 He sought to understand the nature of the power he sensed before
        casting any spells to influence her.

        9.20.2 He was surprised and alarmed to find how her band of renegades
        had grown.

        9.20.3 Kroug was generous with her, and when he came to appreciate her
        talents and the value of her companions as soldiers, he offered an
        alliance.

        9.20.4 He even gave her the gift of a fine filigreed sword, a token of
        friendship that could not easily be dismissed at a time when
        high-quality weaponry was scarce.

    9.21 Caliana refused Kroug's offer of mutual assistance.

        9.21.1 She and her companions slipped away while Kroug was busy with
        another matter.

        9.21.2 Anticipating such deception, Kroug had planted a few spores of
        the Devouring Fungus, as his men referred to it, on the gift sword,
        trusting that the corrosive organism would spread to all their weapons
        and render them easy prey.

        9.21.3 He knew that he would have time later to catch up with the
        disarmed renegades and kill or convert them at his leisure, and he
        returned to the Anvil where work was continuing slowly.

    9.22 Just at the moment that Kroug seemed to have secured the means to
    realize his ambitions, disaster struck.

        9.22.1 A great fire swept across the forest all the way to the
        Stonewood.

        9.22.2 The fire spread to the fungus growing on the rock face, so that
        the entire Anvil was engulfed in flame.

        9.22.3 The fire seemed capable of sustaining itself indefinitely as
        more fungus and fire rained down from the upper reaches of the Anvil;
        Kroug and his company were forced to flee and abandon his plan to
        control the Behemoth.

    9.23 Kroug's hatred of Caliana and the Ethereals grew, and the desire for
    revenge dwarfed the lust for power that had previously defined his life.

    9.24 Kroug returned to his pursuit of power and domination, confident that
    he could save Caliana for last; her execution would be the crowning event
    of his conquest.


                            Volume 10:  Mount Kyrus


    10.1 With the local warlords defeated or absorbed into her army, Caliana
    found herself in a position to make Gelan and the surrounding area a safe
    haven.

        10.1.1 Despite her success, she was tormented by strange dreams and
        premonitions.

        10.1.2 She spent much of her time with Nimnal, a respected philosopher
        and scholar of arcane magic, who attempted to discern the significance
        of her dreams.

        10.1.3 Upon his advice, and over the objections of her closest
        companions, she undertook a solitary journey south into the eerie
        mist-covered moors.

    10.2 In the moors, she encountered the four obelisks which Raspatoon had
    used to prove that the sun was not completely stationary in the sky.

        10.2.1 Raspatoon had carefully measured the tiny shadows cast by the
        obelisks, which printed nearly straight at the sun, and measured the
        slight differences that coincided with the migrations of lemmings.

        10.2.2 It is evident that Caliana stopped to inspect the obelisks, but
        what happened then she has never explained.

        10.2.3 Caliana disappeared without a trace.

    10.3 Hurn found Caliana several weeks later on the road just south of
    Gelan.

        10.3.1 She was dazed and incoherent, babbling about demons, spirits,
        and angels.

        10.3.2 In her absence, the warriors had fallen into discord, some
        forming search parties, some trying to appoint a new leader, some
        conducting raids on nearby territories.

        10.3.3 The Guild's efforts remained unfocused while Caliana regained
        her strength and senses under the care of Nimnal.

        10.3.4 When she had recovered, Caliana sent word throughout her army
        that she would deliver an important address.

        10.3.5 She assigned Marrock and Krom to assist Nimnal in the forging of
        strange medallions to be given to each of her warriors.

        10.3.6 On the morning of the day which we now celebrate as Founding
        Day, Caliana stood on the highest dune on Gelan Beach and delivered the
        fateful speech.

             Volume 11:  The Foundation of the Calian Warrior Guild

    11.1 THIS TEXT IS NOT YET AVAILABLE.


                    Volume 12:  Annals of the Guild, Part I


    12.1 The troops rallied around Caliana, and amid much celebration and
    singing of battle-songs she led them through the moors and up to the base
    of Mt. Kyrus.

        12.1.1 The thick mist which had for so long obscured the upper
        elevations churned and seethed, and it now covered the mountainside
        almost down to the base.

        12.1.2 Where Caliana's lance-head touched the swirling mist, drops
        congealed, collected until they could no longer cling to the point, and
        fell to the ground in shimmering pools.

        12.1.3 The pools spread out into a wide path with smooth edges, as if
        an empty mold for its casting had lain here waiting for the substance
        to be poured, and hardened into a shiny crystalline surface.

        12.1.4 At the top, the mists parted to reveal a crystal palace on the
        spot where walled cities had once stood.

        12.1.5 The warriors adopted the palace as their new home, and named it
        the Calian Palace after their leader.

        12.1.6 The name "Calian" quickly became the name of the Warriors, who
        organized themselves according to Caliana's instruction.

    12.2 While the warriors trained, Caliana studied the ancient texts that had
    been preserved in the palace.

        12.2.1 She honed her magical skills, and devised a test to screen those
        who would join the ranks of the warriors.

        12.2.2 As her powers increased, she became more aloof from the daily
        affairs of the Guild.

        12.2.3 She blessed Krom and Marrock with the rare ability to see an
        enemy's approach at a distance.

        12.2.4 Word of Caliana's abilities spread throughout the land,
        suffering the inevitable exaggeration that comes from oft-told tales.

        12.2.5 Much of the population began to call their homeland "Caliana
        Land," a name which was soon shortened to "Calia."

    12.3 From opposite corners of the land, Caliana and Kroug began to squeeze
    out the other warlords.

    12.4 Caliana was determined to make allies if possible.

        12.4.1 She sent a captured goblin back to Masthron to make a peace
        offering.

        12.4.2 The goblin troops mocked the message brought back by the
        prisoner, but the philosophical Masthron decided to think it over.

    12.5 Masthron's consideration of the peace proposal was the final disgrace
    to many of his bloodthirsty Bosses.

        12.5.1 Since the episode with Bacco, Masthron had become much more of a
        thinker than a warrior.

        12.5.2 Discontent had been brewing among the Bosses for a long time.

        12.5.3 Screaming for revenge against both Caliana and the "weakling"
        Masthron, several Mobs broke into open rebellion.

    12.6 Masthron's troops, never well disciplined, fought among themselves and
    scattered.

        12.6.1 The time of Masthron's presence as a military leader had passed.

        12.6.2 Some goblins joined Calia's swelling ranks, led by Boss Fneeb.

        12.6.3 Others fled in various directions, a few even finding their way
        to Kroug.

        12.6.4 As for Masthron himself, he escaped, and tales have been told of
        his becoming a hermit somewhere deep in the northern forest.

    12.7 Hucker's dwarven army, routed from the high ground some time ago, was
    constantly on the defensive in skirmishes both against Kroug and Caliana.

        12.7.1 With each encounter against Kroug, more of Hucker's army would
        fall under his spell and turn on their comrades.

        12.7.2 When the day came that one of the new krougs turned on Hucker
        and killed him, the dwarven army was finished.

        12.7.3 Many were killed and many converted to krougs; the officer Mleck
        managed to rally a company who escaped and offered their loyalty to
        Caliana.

    12.8 News of Caliana's "destruction" of Masthron's powerful army reached
    Kroug.

        12.8.1 He became alarmed at this simple defeat of a powerful enemy
        without use of either arms or magic.

        12.8.2 Kroug determined that Caliana herself was a source of great
        power, and that without her the Warriors would eventually disintegrate.

    12.9 Kroug sent assassins after Caliana in a variety of guises.

        12.9.1 Some came as merchants, troubadours, or vagabonds, but none of
        these could get close to Caliana.

        12.9.2 Others came posing as potential warriors, but these were
        discovered when they could not pass the test Caliana devised for
        applicants.

    12.10 Kroug decided that the time had come for a full-scale war against
    Caliana.

        12.10.1 He realized that Caliana's magical powers were already great
        enough to thwart any spell he might cast on her.

        12.10.2 Oslewt remained the last major warlord between their two
        armies, and Kroug sensed that she might prefer Caliana as an ally
        rather than himself.

        12.10.3 Kroug planned a massive campaign to rid the land of Caliana,
        starring with a strike to clear Oslewt out of the way.

    12.11 The Second Conflagration began with Kroug and Caliana's forces vying
    for control of the territory occupied by Oslewt.

        12.11.1 Kroug made early gains by grabbing lands not defended by Oslewt
        or Caliana.

        12.11.2 Caliana and Oslewt, attacking independently, eroded Kroug's
        gains, but his troops plundered the land mercilessly before retreating.

    12.12 Kroug's implemented a scorched-ground policy and ordered his troops
    to kill all who could not be converted with his magic.

        12.12.1 Kroug centralized his power, abolishing most ranks and
        directing all aspects of battle directly.

        12.12.2 Caliana's army became more diversified, with various units
        dedicated to specialized tactics.

    12.13 Of those who had a choice, there emerged a pattern in the way
    warriors chose to join with Caliana or Kroug.

        12.13.1 Many common soldiers chose Kroug's juggernaut which gave an
        impression of invincibility.

        12.13.2 Warriors with more training and experience tended to join
        Caliana, where they might have a chance to demonstrate their skills and
        achieve some personal glory.

    12.14 Recognizing the incentive that personal glory would provide, Caliana
    instituted the system of titles for Calian warriors.

        12.14.1 She also formed a war council of her wisest and most
        experienced officers, choosing at least one of each race.

        12.14.2 Her purposeful inclusion of all races within her council
        encouraged good fighters, both native and adventurers from afar, to
        throw in their lot with Caliana.

        12.14.3 Yet the warriors generally preferred to organize themselves
        into single-race companies, and Caliana did not forbid this despite her
        misgivings.

    12.15 Kroug eventually drove far enough into Oslewt's range to cast a spell
    over many of her troops.

        12.15.1 Oslewt and her higher-ranking officers, suddenly beset by their
        own troops, made their escape.

        12.15.2 Kroug absorbed over half the gnome army into his own, but the
        Oslewt herself, her elite warriors, and their imposing weapons soon
        joined the service of Caliana.

    12.16 Caliana and Kroug consolidated their holdings until their territories
    evenly divided the land along the mountain range that runs from southwest
    to northeast.

        12.16.1 For a time, the hardships of crossing the mountains prevented
        large-scale assaults by either force against the other.

        12.16.2 Both armies began a period of rebuilding and retraining, during
        which an uneasy quiet settled upon the land.

                    Volume 13:  Annals of the Guild, Part II

    13.1 The Crux was the sole large gap in the mountains, and both armies
    fortified their sides of the passage to prevent infiltration.

    13.2 Caliana assigned Oslewt the task of establishing observation posts on
    the mountains.

    13.3 Sharp-eyed dwarves made up the bulk of the observers.

    13.4 Those with the best ability to project their thoughts were chosen for
    observer duty.

    13.5 Unknown to them, Kroug had turned his attention to new forms of magic.

        13.5.1 He developed the Sword of Darkness which cast an enveloping
        shadow over an entire company of his troops, allowing them to travel
        unseen.

        13.5.2 By use of this cover, Kroug's troops were able to establish a
        large covert presence on Caliana's side of the mountains.

    13.6 Eventually, Kroug himself made his way through the Crux.

        13.6.1 He rested after making the journey, preparing for the casting of
        a tremendous spell.

        13.6.2 His plan was to draw a large number of Caliana's troops into a
        battle near the Crux.

        13.6.3 By confining them into this tight area, he would have them close
        enough to cast the spell of influence over all of them at once.

    13.7 The plan might have worked if it were not for the fortuitous arrival
    of Odium.

        13.7.1 Whether by mistake or by suggestion, Odium departed from the
        main road while leading a supply convoy to the mountain outposts.

        13.7.2 He found his party enveloped in darkness, but rather than
        retreat, he spurred his goblin cohorts to plunge forward.

        13.7.3 Odium and his companions stumbled headlong into Kroug himself.

    13.8 The battle began with neither side well deployed.

        13.8.1 Kroug's army was half on one side of the Crux, half on the
        other.

        13.8.2 In anticipation of engaging the enemy later, Kroug had kept his
        best officers on the far side of the mountains where they could prepare
        battle plans in security.

    13.9 Caliana's forces were dispersed into scouting parties, border guards,
    supply convoys, and training formations.

        13.9.1 Marrock and Hurn both had well-armed teams near the mountains,
        but they were some distance from the Crux in opposite directions.

        13.9.2 Krom had the largest company ready for combat, but they were
        engaged in training near the palace.

        13.9.3 Oslewt and several subordinate officers had companies of
        observers in the mountains.

        13.9.4 The other officers had been attending to other Guild business
        and had to assemble their forces for the attack.

        13.9.5 Caliana, in the palace, assembled a party of well-armed elite
        guards.

    13.10 With Kroug's infiltration exposed, both sides raced to make the most
    of their sudden encounter.

        13.10.1 Kroug was unwilling to waste his spellcasting power on Odium's
        small company, so the forces engaged on equal terms.

        13.10.2 Kroug's ordered his forces on the far side of the mountains,
        led by Steerax, to begin making their way through the Crux to reinforce
        the forward party.

        13.10.3 Krom, Marrock, and Hurn led their companies toward the Crux to
        meet the invaders.

        13.10.4 At Hurn's bidding, Caliana remained on Mt. Kyrus to coordinate
        the battle.

    13.11 Steerax's and Odium's forces struggled at the entrance to the Crux.

        13.11.1 Odium, in mental contact with Caliana, had been instructed to
        hold the entrance as long as possible, and the narrow space from which
        his soldiers could emerge made it impossible for Steerax to make
        effective use of his vast numeric superiority.

        13.11.2 Heaps of kroug bodies littered the ground, but eventually the
        unending supply of replacements wore Odium's company down, and they
        were pushed away from the mountain.

        13.11.3 Odium's company retreated in a orderly fashion, hoping to delay
        the enemy long enough to join with the advancing reinforcements.

    13.12 Caliana, divining the number of krougs massing for a surge through
    the Crux, ordered Odium to turn in a mock flanking maneuver, let his team
    be trapped against the mountains, and then be driven into the Crux.

        13.12.1 Paradoxically, the turn seemed to play into both Kroug's and
        Caliana's hands.

        13.12.2 The krougs on the northern side of the Crux rushed forward at
        the sight of the Odium's maneuver just as Steerax's column was about to
        deploy, and they drove the intertwined forces back into the narrow
        passage.

        13.12.3 The two halves of Kroug's army prevented each other from
        passing though the Crux, ensuring that his forces would remain split in
        half.

        13.12.4 Odium's convoy was surrounded with little hope of survival.

        13.12.5 The approach of the three companies led by Krom, Hurn, and
        Marrock threatened to surround the enemy, yet it would also place many
        Calians all within the compass of Kroug's spells.

    13.13 Kroug withdrew from the battle in preparation to cast the great
    spell.

        13.13.1 A small but elite unit ringed him to prevent disturbance during
        the complex task of casting the spell on the enemy forces.

        13.13.2 Kroug waited for his enemies to arrive at the optimum distance,
        where he could cast on the greatest number before they did significant
        damage to his own troops.

    13.14 Caliana, observing all with her own magic, sensed the impending doom
    of her own forces and commanded a desperate strategy.

        13.14.1 Hurn, Krom, and Marrock would strike an off-center blow on
        Kroug's flank, inflicting much damage but keeping their distance from
        Kroug himself and the Crux.

        13.14.2 Oslewt's forces would abandon their observation posts and
        descend straight down the mountainside onto Kroug's position.

        13.14.3 Only surprise would give Oslewt an opportunity to upset Kroug's
        preparations.

        13.14.4 There would be no chance for any rescue of Odium; his small
        force would have to defend the Crux to the death so that Kroug's
        reserves could not enter the fray.

    13.15 Oslewt's team descended the mountain quickly, so quickly that a few
    were killed by falling.

        13.15.1 Kroug, intent on gauging the advance of the forces approaching
        from the north, did not sense their approach until they were nearly
        upon him.

        13.15.2 Oslewt herself split the ring of guards, forcing Kroug to
        defend himself with his magic.

        13.15.3 Kroug conjured a whirlwind that hurled Oslewt's team back
        against the mountainside, killing and injuring many of them.

        13.15.4 Oslewt had fulfilled her role - having used a powerful spell
        already, Kroug was no longer in condition to possess a large number of
        Caliana's troops.

    13.16 His initial objective foiled, Kroug turned his attention to the Crux.

        13.16.1 With Odium's company drawing so many krougs directly to the
        narrow passage, Kroug's troops could neither retreat or organize an
        aggregate assault.

        13.16.2 Marrock and Hurn led the attack on Kroug's flank.

        13.16.3 Almost as soon as the krougs had reformed into a line to face
        their attackers, Krom drove his column headlong into them.

    13.17 With reinforcements on the march under Alamog and Elvira, Kroug
    realized that the Crux had to be opened or half his army would be
    decimated.

        13.17.1 The goblins led by Odium had wedged themselves into the
        tightest part of the Crux, where the lack of maneuvering room gave the
        superior Kroug forces little advantage.

        13.17.2 Kroug cast a spell, summoning forth lightning which repeatedly
        struck the goblins, killing a few and scattering the rest.

        13.17.3 Only Odium remained to block the passage, and the narrow space
        combined with his straight-ahead mauling expertise gave him every
        advantage.

        13.17.4 Steerax withdrew his troops and sent forth Humjob to deal with
        Odium.

        13.17.5 Hampered by the lack of space to swing his enormous weapon and
        repeatedly mauled by Odium, Humjob's inestimable constitution
        nonetheless prevailed, and Odium was cast in pieces upon the rocks.

    13.18 The Crux finally opened, Kroug's army streamed through, and the
    battle began to turn in his favor.

        13.18.1 Steerax led the reinforcements through the passage and
        assembled them into a formidable line alongside those commanded by
        Kroug.

        13.18.2 Kroug's forces advanced in a formation that stretched from
        horizon to horizon, with a tightly packed group led by Razmocudiac held
        in reserve.

        13.18.3 Caliana's forces fell back, retreating northwest toward Mt.
        Kyrus.

        13.18.4 Alamog's company assembled at the foot of the mountain, but
        they realized even from their distance that Kroug had a potentially
        devastating numeric advantage.

    13.19 Caliana cast four spells to buy time for her troops to redeploy in a
    desperate attempt to stop Kroug's advance.

        13.19.1 Kroug's troops suddenly became confused, each misunderstanding
        such simple things as his assigned place in line or the marching
        cadence.

        13.19.2 As the officers whipped the troops back into their formations,
        they began to jostle and push each other, every one trying to be at the
        front in pursuit of glory and loot.

        13.19.3 Some began to fall back as they shouted incoherently of seeing
        demons, their own deaths, or ghosts of fallen comrades.

        13.19.4 A few, weak-minded and prone to suggestion, confused their own
        troops with the enemy, and skirmishes broke out within Kroug's ranks.

    13.20 As the opposing armies moved into the foothills of Mt. Kyrus, a
    subtle shift in the battle occurred.

        13.20.1 Kroug's troops, while greater in number, had lost any semblance
        of coherent formation other than the group led by Razmocudiac, which
        retained its tight formation and concentrated on zig-zagging up the
        mountain to avoid contact with the Calians.

        13.20.2 Caliana's army had regrouped while in retreat.

        13.20.3 They also knew the foothills well, and could turn the
        intricacies of the terrain to their advantage.

        13.20.4 The battle broke into a series of skirmishes, with the Calians
        surrounding and decimating groups of krougs as they broke from their
        main force.

    13.21 Although their losses were heavy, the krougs made gradual progress up
    the mountain.

        13.21.1 The Calians fell back into an ever-tightening ring around the
        palace.

        13.21.2 Alamog's forces assembled at the base of the mountain and
        followed the krougs, tearing into them from behind.

    13.22 Kroug cast a great spell of darkness.

        13.22.1 The resulting chaos favored his side, which did not depend on
        formations and coordination as the Calians did, and the darkness gave
        Razmocudiac the opportunity to move his company up near the palace.

        13.22.2 The palace guards emerged with torches and lamps, but they were
        only partially successful in alleviating Kroug's advantage.

    13.23 Both sides continued taking heavy losses until the survivors were
    locked in a final struggle on the summit.

    13.24 The remainder of Oslewt's force reached the foothills, and the krougs
    found themselves fighting enemies above and below.

    13.25 The companies led by Oslewt and Alamog made slow but steady progress
    against the lower krougs, and Steerax divided his forces into two fronts.

        13.25.1 The krougs on the lower slopes fought a delaying action to slow
        the advance of the reinforcements.

        13.25.2 Razmocudiac's troops, who had thus far taken little damage,
        charged into the Calians atop the mountain with Humjob in the lead,
        tearing into the Calian line with his enormous spiked chain.

    13.26 Surrounded by krougs and losing mobility in their encirclement, the
    Calians on the upper plateau took refuge in the palace and locked the
    gates.

        13.26.1 The krougs were unable to gain entry to the palace.

        13.26.2 Razmocudiac's small group searched the palace walls until they
        found a weakness.

        13.26.3 When they found what they were looking for, they set about
        spreading a strange compound on the palace wall.

        13.26.4 Razmocudiac himself ignited the compound and was incinerated by
        the inferno that resulted.

        13.26.5 Nimnal, no man-at-arms, had remained inside the palace during
        the battle.

            13.26.5.1 He suggested a strategy for dealing with the superior
            force threatening to invade the palace.

            13.26.5.2 His counsel revealed both wisdom and detailed knowledge
            of the enemy's capabilities.

        13.26.6 Caliana set the battle plan according to Nimnal's suggestion
        when it became obvious that the wall would soon be breached.

    13.27 With Razmocudiac gone, Humjob led the krougs through the hole burned
    in the palace wall.

        13.27.1 The Calians met them ferociously and inflicted many casualties,
        but the krougs continued to come through the hole, and Humjob seemed
        invincible.

        13.27.2 Nimnal himself picked up a sword from one of the fallen palace
        guards and fought with a bizarre, insane fury.

            13.27.2.1 He stood toe to toe with the mighty Humjob, parrying the
            wild swings of the spiked chain, and gave the Calians time to clear
            a path along which to fall back.

            13.27.2.2 Eventually, Humjob's limitless endurance and strength
            defeated Nimnal, and the enemy poured in over his crushed, lifeless
            body.

        13.27.3 The Calians fell back, leading Humjob and the krougs along the
        path Nimnal had suggested, into the Room of Light.

    13.28 The intense light blinded Humjob, and he flailed wildly with his
    weapon, slaying some of his own troops.

        13.28.1 The krougs, confused by the light and Humjob's actions, turned
        their attack toward their own leader.

        13.28.2 Humjob struck out in the direction from which the attacks came,
        and he killed and maimed many of the krougs on his way back out of the
        hole.

    13.29 Humjob and the Calians pursued the remaining krougs around the palace
    and along the crystal road.

        13.29.1 Humjob, still blinded, continued down the mountainside,
        slaughtering and scattering the krougs.

        13.29.2 The Calians followed on his heels, disposing of the survivors
        of Humjob's attack and sending fodder down to Oslewt's troops.

        13.29.3 Caliana's injury prevented her from pursuing the enemy down the
        crystal road, and Hurn stayed on the summit as well to tend to her and
        prevent any further intrusion into the palace.

    13.30 Kroug, recognizing that the tide of battle had turned irrevocably
    against him, cast one last spell.

        13.30.1 Kroug turned into gigantic black dragon.

        13.30.2 He bypassed the warriors in a desperate bid to kill the one
        enemy who could prevent his eventual domination of the entire land:
        Caliana.

    13.31 The dragon charged to the top of the mountain and attempted to
    annihilate Caliana and Hurn, who were standing before the palace doors,
    with a fiery gust.

        13.31.1 Caliana cast a quick spell to protect herself and Hurn from the
        fire, but it was the last of her magic.

        13.31.2 Caliana and Hurn attacked the dragon, she with the blue *
        cypress lance and he with the filigreed sword.

        13.31.3 Some of the palace guards saw what was transpiring and rushed
        uphill to assist them, but they were too far out of position to have
        any effect.

    13.32 The dragon raised its head to deliver another blast.

        13.32.1 Caliana drove her lance into its exposed throat, blocking its
        airway completely.

        13.32.2 Hurn drove for a vital spot with his filigreed sword but the
        dragon grabbed him with its talons and immobilized him.

    13.33 The dragon clutched at the lance, trying to remove it and free the
    incendiary mixture caught in its throat.

        13.33.1 Hurn tossed his sword to Caliana so that she could free him.

        13.33.2 Caliana raised the sword to slash at the dragon's claw, but
        hesitated.

    13.34 Caliana swung the sword upward, slicing off the handle of the lance
    stuck in the dragon's throat.

        13.34.1 The bit of lance that still protruded from the dragon's neck
        was too small for it to get a grip.

        13.34.2 The dragon writhed in agony as its innards were incinerated.

        13.34.3 It crushed Hurn as it convulsed.

        13.34.4 The dragon dropped Hurn's body as it rolled down the
        mountainside into the darkness Kroug had cast only a few minutes
        before.

    13.35 When the darkness cleared, Mt. Kyrus was littered with the bodies of
    two armies, but there was no dragon corpse.

        13.35.1 Oslewt and Alamog formed two small companies from the surviving
        warriors and headed south in search of krougs.

        13.35.2 The palace guards were assigned to bury the dead, with special
        instructions to bury Hurn where he lay.

    13.36 In the days that followed, Caliana became ever more distracted and
    detached.

        13.36.1 She spoke, rambling sometimes, about the continuing presence of
        krougs in the land whose enchantment should have been broken when Kroug
        died.

        13.36.2 Her isolation grew profound after the discovery of Odium.

        13.36.3 Odium had not been killed in the Crux, but he had been maimed
        terribly, and even Caliana's magic could not help him.

    13.37 Caliana emerged from her seclusion long enough to give new
    instructions to the guild.

        13.37.1 Odium was relieved of his duties, and he retired to a secluded
        place in the forest to live out the remainder of his days in
        tranquility.

        13.37.2 Oslewt was put in charge of a permanent expeditionary force to
        hunt the krougs who were roaming the countryside in small groups.

        13.37.3 She sent forth Gamalus, a student of Nimnal who had shown a
        talent for conjuring, with instructions to oversee the repair of the
        palace wall with the assistance of Raspatoon.

        13.37.4 Caliana ordered a monument erected to Hurn on the spot where he
        was buried, noting that she should be summoned at a key point in the
        construction to add a magical blessing.

        13.37.5 Caliana abolished the system of single-race battalions in the
        Guild.


                         Volume 14:  The Confederation


    14.1 The Calian calendar counts years from signing of the Compact at the
    Congress of Gelan.

        14.1.1 The years are named First Year of Confederation, Second Year of
        Confederation, etc.

        14.1.2 The day on which the Compact was finally signed is celebrated
        annually as *Confederation Day.

    14.2 The Congress of Gelan was called to establish a Confederation of the
    far-flung and disorganized cities, towns, and villages.

        14.2.1 The Council of the Warriors Guild sent invitations to all
        mayors, governors, and other rulers knows to them to attend the
        Congress.

        14.2.2 With assurance of protection on the roads from the Guild, many
        representatives attended.

        14.2.3 Skilled carpenters and masons set about building a hall for the
        Congress, including a tall tower with a great bronze bell.

        14.2.4 Small dwellings known as "hospitality bungalows" were quickly
        built to provide sleeping quarters for Congress attendees.

    14.3 The proceedings started with great rancor and discord, as many
    cultures were represented, both native and newcomer.

        14.3.1 The fight over who should chair the meeting lasted for days, as
        did arguments over procedure and representation.

        14.3.2 The Congress finally began to make progress when it was agreed
        that Raspatoon, the eldest by far, should chair the meeting.

    14.4 Raspatoon set a marble sphere of about a meter in diameter in the
    middle of the hall.

        14.4.1 Raspatoon ordered that only one may speak at a time, and only
        for as long as each could balance on the marble sphere.

        14.4.2 The attempts by the first few speakers to remain upright on the
        sphere proved comical.

        14.4.3 Once the attendees realized that the balance became easier with
        no armour, robes, or other trappings of rank, especially fancy leather
        shoes, the Congress began to relax and get down to business.

    14.5 The debate centered on the type of government the land should adopt.

        14.5.1 Some advocated a monarchy, and proposed the kings or queens of
        their own city-states for the position.

        14.5.2 Many favored crowning Caliana herself, even though she had
        declined to attend the Congress.

        14.5.3 Several proficient warriors suggested a trial by combat.

        14.5.4 Many other forms of government were proposed:  an elected
        senate, a council of elders, even a mystical oracle of the Ethereals.

    14.6 In all this debate, a key concern was the role of the Calian Warriors.

        14.6.1 It was recognized that regardless of the form of government, the
        Warriors were the greatest military power.

        14.6.2 All feared that whatever form of government was chosen would use
        the Warriors to gain tyrannical power.

    14.7 Finally, Marrock spoke and offered the plan which came to be known as *
    Marrock's Compromise.

        14.7.1 In his plan, there would be no central government.

        14.7.2 Each community could retain its present boundaries.

        14.7.3 The Warriors would be responsible for the elimination of rogue
        krougs and the suppression of any aggression by one community against
        another.

        14.7.4 The Warriors would only engage in combat within a community's
        borders under two conditions:

            14.7.4.1 They were attacked.

            14.7.4.2 Their help was requested by the local government.

    14.8 There was much more debate, but it eventually became apparent that
    Marrock's plan was the only one that would receive even tepid support from
    the majority.

        14.8.1 Raspatoon ordered two scribes, Bithnu and Phidmeck, to write
        down the text of *Marrock's Compromise as a compact which all parties
        could sign.

            14.8.1.1 In the Compact, Gelan was designated as the Warriors'
            administrative center so that anyone having business with them
            would not have to climb Mt. Kyrus.

            14.8.1.2 In the section defining the mission of the Warriors Guild,
            a quotation from Marrock's great speech was emblazoned in
            particularly large and ornate letters:  We Protect But Do Not Rule.

            14.8.1.3 The prominent quotation became known as the Calian Maxim,
            the motto which guided a Warrior's conduct within the borders of
            Calia.

        14.8.2 After an impassioned speech by Krom, with much loud assent by
        others who had participated in the Great Battle, "Calia" was adopted as
        the name of the land governed by the Compact.

        14.8.3 Marrock was voted the first administrator of Gelan.

        14.8.4 When the last delegate had signed the Compact, the event was
        heralded by the ringing of the great bronze bell, which was so loud
        that it could be heard even atop Mt. Kyrus.

    14.9 After the signing of the Compact by most of the attendees, a period of
    relative calm settled over the land.

        14.9.1 The population turned its attention back to business,
        agriculture, and other productive matters.

        14.9.2 The Compact was stored in the archives in Gelan, with the
        proviso that it would be available for future emissaries of Calian
        communities to sign and thus come under the protection of the Guild.

                        Volume 15:  War Legend of Calia

    15.1 Allerdice and Doe, having promised to wait until the enemy was
    defeated before getting married, are finally able to set a date.

        15.1.1 It was the first wedding that many Calians had had an
        opportunity to attend, and a public invitation was posted in Gelan and
        other towns.

        15.1.2 Since it was the only building large enough to hold the
        multitude of expected guests, *Confederation Hall was cleared of all
        furniture to make room for dancing.

        15.1.3 Murl, good at organizing and at cooking, took charge of the
        planning for the celebration.

    15.2 Krom agrees to perform the ceremony.

        15.2.1 Allerdice and Doe had planned to ask Caliana, but she was still
        healing from her injuries in the Great Battle, and she understood
        perfectly their reluctance to wait any longer.

        15.2.2 Krom and Caliana discussed the particulars of the ceremony at
        length and devised a few special provisions for the benefit of the
        couple.

        15.2.3 Your views on Calian wedding customs are solicited.

    15.3 After the ceremony, the wedding party and guests moved into
    Confederation Hall for feasting and dancing.

        15.3.1 After the toasts and congratulations, Murl slipped the happy
        couple out of the hall and escorted them to the Calian Inn, where they
        would spend their honeymoon.

        15.3.2 As Murl returned through the town square, she noticed krougs at
        work, piling up furniture against the side of Confederation Hall and
        preparing to set it ablaze.

    15.4 Murl tried to shout a warning, but she could not be heard over the
    noise of the continuing celebration and only succeeded in drawing the
    attention of the krougs.

        15.4.1 She ran to the bell tower and sounded the alarm, which prompted
        the celebrants to take notice of the danger.

        15.4.2 Their plot foiled, the krougs collapsed the pile of pitch-soaked
        furniture on Murl, who was pinned against the facade of the hall.

        15.4.3 The krougs set the pile ablaze before the emerging warriors
        could drive them away.

    15.5 Warriors from within the hall rushed to attack the krougs.

        15.5.1 All of the krougs were killed or driven off.

        15.5.2 A bucket brigade managed to save much of Confederation Hall, but
        not before Murl died in the fire.

    15.6 Caliana conducted Murl's funeral in a willow grove east of Gelan and
    for her valor awarded her posthumously the title War Legend of Calia.

                            Volume 16:  Modern Times

    16.1 Calia finally turned its attention away from war.

    16.2 Marrock, with Alamog as his deputy, encouraged the partnership system,
    in which mixed-race groups of entrepreneurs were given tax and rent
    benefits for newly formed enterprises.

        16.2.1 Bithnu the gnome and Phidmeck the dwarf set themselves up as
        surveyors and mapmakers.

        16.2.2 Shimram the human and Mezzlebeb the elf became well-known
        scribes as the demand for tales and songs of the Guild's exploits
        increased.

        16.2.3 Mleck the dwarf and Fneeb the goblin founded the Gourmet Club
        and became purveyors of delicacies to satisfy the tastes of the
        multifarious population of Calia.

        16.2.4 A number of adventurous Calians started quarrying and mining
        operations in East Calia, providing marble and granite for construction
        and salt for export.

    16.3 The influence of foreign customs and ideas is reflected in a number of
    social and cultural organizations which have arisen since the war's end.

        16.3.1 The Heartbreakers Club is an elitist society whose membership
        was restricted to only the most beautiful residents.

        16.3.2 The Dashing Rogues perpetuate the style, if not the substance,
        of the most celebrated heroes of the great war.

        16.3.3 The Gourmet Club offers the services of both a fine restaurant
        and several banquet rooms with scenic views to members and their
        guests; non-members may still make use of the shop on the lower level.

            16.3.3.1 When Confederation Hall was rebuilt with a stone facade,
            the Club moved in.

            16.3.3.2 In memory of Murl, the first Gourmet of Calia, they
            renamed it *Brightwater Hall.

        16.3.4 The Intellectual League has severe entrance requirements, but
        its members are respected as sources of rational advice.

        16.3.5 The Rude Wooden Men are a strange lot, meeting in a rude wooden
        hut.

    16.4 In addition to the Calian Warriors, several guilds have been founded
    which attract a variety of applicants, both native Calians and newcomers.

        16.4.1 The Physicians provide medical services to the sick and injured.

        16.4.2 The Counsellors are a guild of legal experts who assist citizens
        and visitors in their official dealing with the Administrator.

        16.4.3 The Maritime Guild promotes trade though the exploration of new
        sea routes.

    16.5 Alas, the land is also host to people and organizations whose aims are
    contrary to those of the Confederation.

        16.5.1 Krougians are a strange folk who neither support the
        Confederation nor openly oppose it.

            16.5.1.1 Descendants of krougs, they do not have the burnt
            appearance of their ancestors.

            16.5.1.2 The strangeness of their appearance is entirely in their
            eyes, a shade of gray so pale that they seem to be nearly white,
            completely devoid of pupils.

            16.5.1.3 They seem neither evil nor threatening, yet they are an
            untrustworthy lot, and their actions are often erratic and
            unexplainable.

        16.5.2 The Meat Cult is a secretive group composed largely of
        krougians, and little is known of them other than their motto:  Meat is
        Strength.

                       Volume 17:  Partings and Promises

    17.1 Marrock collected a few of Murl's valuable possessions and vowed to
    find her homeland and return them there.

    17.2 Caliana gave her last orders:

        17.2.1 A stone was cut from the Bleak Zone of East Calia and dragged
        laboriously up Mt. Kyrus and into the palace.

        17.2.2 Krom was appointed Guildmaster of the Calian Warriors.

    17.3 Caliana and the filigreed sword disappeared, leaving behind an
    enigmatic note, and Krom began his leadership of the guild which continues
    to this day.

        17.3.1 Krom ordered the handle of the blue cypress lance placed in the
        basement of the palace in a newly-constructed vault.

        17.3.2 Work began on fortifications around the perimeter of the palace
        grounds, although work was slow because of the labor involved in
        hauling stone and lumber up the crystalline road.

                             Volume 18:  Apotheosis

    18.1 THIS TEXT IS NOT YET AVAILABLE.

