                            Volume 3:  Early History


    3.1 The ancient name of this land was Gelanova, and it was inhabited by
    many races who shared a quiet, cooperative existence.

        3.1.1 The name comes from a combination of words meaning "leaves" and
        "vines," the dominant vegetation before the Dim Time.

        3.1.2 Farming was a matter of planting a few seeds and waiting for an
        abundant harvest.

        3.1.3 Meat was provided either by domestic animals or notoriously easy
        to slay game animals.

    3.2 There was no common system of religious beliefs, but most respected the
    Kyrullian Order whose ceremonies were credited with maintaining the land's
    fertility and agreeable climate.

        3.2.1 The Kyrullian Order was a mystical community of enchanters.

        3.2.2 They promoted the concept of the "common good" in which the
        diverse residents of the land could benefit by cooperating rather than
        competing.

        3.2.3 Kyrullians were the only residents before the Dim Time who are
        known to have regularly travelled the length and breadth of the land.

        3.2.4 The arrival of a Kyrullian was an important event in the life of a
        village, not only for the honor conferred by such an important visitor,
        but for the opportunity to hear news and stories from faraway places.

    3.3 Little formal education was available, and much of the population was
    illiterate.

        3.3.1 Skills necessary for farming and trades were passed on locally,
        and thus work habits, tools, and methods of organizing labor varied
        considerably from village to village.

        3.3.2 While reading and writing were not common skills, folklore and
        history was preserved in memorized song, story, and verse.

    3.4 There was no cohesive culture other than the teachings of the
    Kyrullians.

        3.4.1 Even between neighboring villages there were often distinct
        customs in dress and language.

        3.4.2 Organizations such as granges and unions were formed to manage
        agricultural and mercantile affairs, but most only exerted influence
        over a few adjacent villages or other small territory.

        3.4.3 Kyrullians acted as arbiters for serious disputes, although
        folklore tells of occasional conflicts that developed into
        long-standing feuds or even ended in duels.

    3.5 No members of the sect survived the First Conflagration, and almost
    nothing is left of their teachings.

        3.5.1 We know that they called upon supernatural forces called the
        Elementals.

        3.5.2 Their rituals involved the use of glyphs, symbols representing
        various forms of power.

        3.5.3 A few glyphs have been discovered, and there are rumors that some
        Calians have managed to reintroduce a tiny bit of their magic.


