                                Volume 8:  Gelan


    8.1 Prior to the Dim Time, the village was one of many small communities of
    merchants surrounded by farms and forest.

        8.1.1 As with so many villages, there was little use for a name, and
        the location was often referred to by the natives' word for "home" or
        "here."

        8.1.2 Although there was an excellent natural harbor here, there was
        little shipping or travel before the wars.

        8.1.3 The fledgling Maritime Guild, founded by warriors who had grown
        weary of endless and senseless campaigns, increased the size and
        diversity of the population.

    8.2 Caliana's arrival with her warriors marks the beginning of modern
    Gelan.

        8.2.1 Rather than conquer the village, she offered to assist with its
        defense in return for food and lodging for her company.

        8.2.2 With protection from Caliana's forces and some wealth generated
        by the Maritime Guild's commerce, the village grew into a town with a
        need for both a government and a name.

        8.2.3 A mayor was chosen, and remembering the ancient name of the land
        before the wars, he dubbed the town Gelan with the approval of its
        citizens.

        8.2.4 The goblin army of Masthron had been shifted east by their
        pursuit of the Pack, so there was a period of nearly a year in which
        there was no serious military threat.

        8.2.5 As word of the opportunities for trade in a well-guarded town
        spread, traders and craftsmen began to arrive and set up shop.

    8.3 In the early days of the Pack's residence in Gelan, commerce was good,
    and the citizens had time for pleasurable pursuits.

        8.3.1 Word of the town's prosperity eventually reached the ears of the
        warlords.

        8.3.2 As Kroug advanced in the far southeast, other warlords retreated
        north, and Gelan became a target.

    8.4 Hucker was the first to attempt to add Gelan to his territory.

        8.4.1 Caliana's troops not only repulsed Hucker's advance, but they
        managed to clear his observers from the lower levels of Mt. Kyrus,
        leaving him vulnerable to surprise attack from several directions.

        8.4.2 The upper levels of Mt. Kyrus remained shrouded in a dense mist,
        and none dared venture into it, so the lower slopes remained the
        strategic high ground with clear views of vast plains and forests.

    8.5 Gelan remained the center of activity for Caliana's warriors.

        8.5.1 Gelan became famous for its high-quality arms and armour.

        8.5.2 Caliana ordered the building of a road from the moors to the base
        of Mt. Kyrus so that her observers could be kept supplied and
        reinforced.

    8.6 The warriors and the residents of Gelan enjoyed another brief period of
    peace.

        8.6.1 No warlord dared attack the feared warriors of Caliana.

        8.6.2 The town prospered further by developing foreign trade, notably
        in the export of timber.

        8.6.3 Goods were transported to the nearby Thalassian Islands, which
        also prospered from the shipping business, from which they were sent
        overseas to distant lands.

        8.6.4 The time of prosperity drew to a close with the rise to power of
        Caliana's greatest enemy:  Kroug.


