                            Volume 4:  The Dim Time


    4.1 The name "Dim Time" stems both from the loss of learning that resulted
    and the appearance of an obscuring mist around Mt. Kyrus which cast its
    shadow across much of the land.

    4.2 The beginning of the Dim Time was marked by the eruption of Mt. Pyros
    in the Thalassian Sea, about 350 years BC (Before Confederation).

        4.2.1 The fire, smoke, and ash drew the attention of distant mariners.

        4.2.2 An occasional ship visited the coast, and tales of a friendly,
        hospitable land spread across the seas.

        4.2.3 Invasion by sea-faring warriors followed shortly thereafter,
        mostly by barbarians who arrived in longboats and landed all along the
        west coast.

        4.2.4 Since the coastal plain was poorly defended, the focus of the
        stories told about this land turned from generous hospitality to easy
        plunder.

    4.3 Soldiers of fortune were attracted here.

        4.3.1 Some offered their services as leaders, trainers, and armorers

        4.3.2 Others sought merely to conquer a bit of territory for
        themselves.

    4.4 Under the stress of warfare for the first time in memory, the
    population of Gelanova divided itself into many competing groups.

        4.4.1 Hostilities emerged across racial lines, resulting in the bitter
        division that is now known as the Schism of Races.

        4.4.2 Both invaders and natives used racial prejudices to amass armies,
        at first small, leading to the rise of warlords.

    4.5 The Scribes of Calia divide the history of warlords into early, middle,
    and late periods, beginning approximately 300, 150, and 50 years BC.

        4.5.1 Early warlords controlled small territories and their rules were
        generally short.

            4.5.1.1 Yeck the It was among the most bizarre of all warlords.

                4.5.1.1.1 Yeck's race, gender, and description are all unknown.

                4.5.1.1.2 Yeck would not even be recorded in these Chronicles
                if so many cryptic references to it were not preserved in
                journals, stories, and even graffiti carved with great effort
                into the faces of huge stones in northeastern Calia.

                4.5.1.1.3 While tales of its exploits are conflicting and
                vague, Yeck apparently held firm control of a small, narrow
                valley in the northeast for a considerable time.

                4.5.1.1.4 Evidence of Yeck's dominance ends mysteriously during
                the middle period, and its final disposition is unknown.

            4.5.1.2 Skew the Gorer was the most successful of the early human
            warlords.

                4.5.1.2.1 He was notorious for disposing of enemies in
                diabolically gruesome ways, both on the battlefield and in his
                prison.

                4.5.1.2.2 According to legend, he came from a land where war
                had raged for centuries, and he brought to Gelanova a powerful
                army and a ruthlessness which the natives could never have
                imagined.

                4.5.1.2.3 Eventually his ferocity and cruelty were his end, as
                his own troops, revolted by behavior that many considered
                beneath the warriors' code, rebelled against him and killed him
                in his own torture chamber.

            4.5.1.3 In the history of Indalan, a cunning and opportunistic elf,
            can be found the rise and fall of archers in this land.

                4.5.1.3.1 Indalan's lightly-armoured elven archers attacked in
                waves, approaching, firing their arrows, and then retreating
                before the enemy ever came within striking distance.

                4.5.1.3.2 When the enemy was sufficiently worn down by the
                archers, Indalan's motley but well-armed brigade of mercenaries
                would move in for the kill.

                4.5.1.3.3 These tactics succeeded until an army equipped with
                immense shields managed to repel the archers' attack, remaining
                intact and no easy target for the mercenaries.

                4.5.1.3.4 The mercenaries soon drifted into the ranks of more
                successful warlords, and Indalan's army dispersed.

        4.5.2 The middle-period warlords managed to carve out enduring
        territories and establish cohesive armies that could be passed on to
        their successors.

        4.5.3 A few of the more successful late- and middle-period warlords
        commissioned scribes to record their adventures, and their histories
        are preserved in these Chronicles.

            4.5.3.1 Gnome Benobodrome occupied a small plateau in the northeast
            that was easy to defend from forces below, and managed to control
            it well into the time of the Quartan.

            4.5.3.2 Hermione led many of her fellow captives in an escape from
            Benobodrome's plateau.

                4.5.3.2.1 She formed a nomadic, all-female band of renegades
                known as the Shrews.

                4.5.3.2.2 Seeking survival rather than conquest, they managed
                to control a small territory, whose boundaries were in constant
                flux, while avoiding direct confrontation the major warlords.

        4.5.4 During the middle period, the Veiling darkened the land and
        marked the end of the influence of the Kyrullians.

            4.5.4.1 The peaceful Kyrullians, no match for the military skills of
            the invaders and unable to stem the tide of violence that swept
            through the native population, retreated to the strongholds atop
            Mt. Kyrus.

            4.5.4.2 A great wind swept across the land, tearing trees out of
            the ground, blowing over houses, and even cracking the face of Mt.
            Kyrus.

            4.5.4.3 When the violent storm subsided, the top of Mt. Kyrus
            remained ringed in a perpetual dense mist, and soon thereafter the
            appearance of new islands in the Thalassian Sea was reported.

        4.5.5 As if the land were not already sufficiently burdened, during the
        entire Dim Time fanatics repeatedly appeared, claiming bizarre
        abilities or offering outlandish "solutions" to the suffering
        population.

            4.5.5.1 The Penitent Few believed that the war was a punishment
            inflicted on them for some grievous sin, and hoped to end the
            strife by doing public penance.

            4.5.5.2 The Brown-Nose League sought safety in appeasement.

            4.5.5.3 Les Poseurs Formidables tried to intimidate invaders with a
            hollow show of bravado; only the most feebleminded were fooled.

            4.5.5.4 The Poxers created a panic as they deliberately infected
            themselves with a dreaded disease, sacrificing themselves in an
            attempt to frighten away the invading barbarians.

            4.5.5.5 - 4.7.??  Anyone who has knowledge of other cults in Calia
            should bring them to the attention of the Scribes for inclusion in
            the Chronicles!

        4.5.6 The late period begins about 50 years BC with the formation of
        the Quartan, the alliance of the four most powerful warlords who ruled
        the land until the time of Caliana.

        4.5.7 The history of the Quartan is detailed in Volume 5, but several
        other important warlords were active during the late period.

            4.5.7.1 Bacco Irontoe commanded a swift-moving army of hobbits in
            the northern forests, adept both at quick, surprise strikes and at
            laying clever traps for their enemies.

            4.5.7.2 The four elven Kolodni Brothers commanded battalions that
            attacked in well-coordinated patterns from multiple directions,
            using their superior formations to defeat larger opponents.

            4.5.7.3 - ?? Anyone with knowledge of other warlords during the
            early or middle periods is encouraged to submit their information,
            however sketchy, for inclusion in the Chronicles.

    4.6 Unknown to most of the population, the remnants of a foreign
    civilization, fleeing persecution in their native land, found their way
    here during the Dim Time.

        4.6.1 Good fortune greeted them, for they quickly found an isolated
        valley in which they could rebuild their culture without interference.

        4.6.2 Once they had blocked the only entrance to the valley by starting
        a massive landslide, their new land, which they named Argos, was
        inaccessible to outsiders.

        4.6.3 Only recently have the Argosians cleared the entrance to their
        valley and allowed outsiders to enter through a great gate.

        4.6.4 The Argosians, to varying degrees, remain distrustful of
        visitors; little of their story is recorded in the Chronicles, but more
        can be read about them in their own great library.


