                                Volume 9:  Kroug


    9.1 Kroug's father, Zarr, tutored his son at an early age in the ways of
    warlords.

        9.1.1 Kroug learned both to fight and to command troops.

        9.1.2 Zarr also taught him about punishment and torture.

    9.2 The dark arts had a special fascination for him.

        9.2.1 At first Zarr encouraged this interest, but soon he was dismayed
        by the amount of time Kroug diverted from other purposes to pursue it.

        9.2.2 Kroug used his magic to strengthen Zarr's military position, but
        Zarr, instead of being appreciative, grew suspicious of his son.

    9.3 Zarr sent the adolescent Kroug in command of a company to wipe out a
    minor warlord, Alamog the elf, who had encamped in the fringe of the
    southern forest.

        9.3.1 Rather than destroy the enemy, Kroug persuaded Alamog to join
        forces with Zarr.

        9.3.2 Upon Kroug's return, Zarr accused Kroug of betrayal, and ordered
        him executed after a sham trial.

    9.4 Zarr's army was thrown into confusion as Kroug's company attempted to
    rescue their commander.

        9.4.1 The other Kolodni brothers brought their forces to bear, flushing
        Zarr from his protected position.

        9.4.2 Kroug, freed from his bonds, captured Zarr and extracted the
        secret from him:  he had known about the three battalions and sent
        Kroug into what he expected would be a fatal trap!

    9.5 What happened inside the fortress next is not recorded, but the next
    day the camp was once again quiet.

        9.5.1 Kroug was gone.

        9.5.2 His younger brother, with the help of the elven brothers, was in
        command of the army.

        9.5.3 Zarr's head was impaled on a pike by the front gate.

    9.6 Thus began Kroug's years of travel, during which he mastered the Dark
    Arts.

        9.6.1 Kroug does not speak of these years.

        9.6.2 A few rumors and tales have been related by newcomers to Calia
        regarding a human known only as the Dark Traveller, and it is believed
        that this Traveller was Kroug on his far-ranging quest to learn the
        secrets of magic from many lands.

    9.7 Kroug returned and took control of the army without question.

        9.7.1 Goryn announced the return of Kroug, turned over command of the
        army to him, and was never seen again.

        9.7.2 His early forays against other warlords used non-humans as the
        advance force, keeping the humans in safer positions.

        9.7.3 After heavy losses among their ranks, non-humans began to
        question Kroug's tactics.

        9.7.4 Through death in battle and at the hands of Kroug's enforcers, as
        well as through some successful desertions, the non-human elements were
        gradually weeded out of the army.

    9.8 While Kroug consolidated his hold on the territory, he converted a
    large part of the fortress into a laboratory in which he perfected his
    magic.

        9.8.1 He performed experiments on both animals and captured enemy
        soldiers, often with grotesque results.

        9.8.2 Eventually he perfected the Spell of Obedience, which permanently
        subjugated the subject's will to Kroug's.

        9.8.3 While the spell was effective and unbreakable, Kroug found a need
        for officers who could think for themselves, and he devised methods of
        obtaining their loyalty without casting spells on them.

    9.9 Kroug established a corps of generals who devised special tactics for
    the troops under their control.

        9.9.1 Steerax was a ferocious and independent soldier of fortune whose
        exploits had taken him into battles in many faraway lands.

            9.9.1.1 Kroug recognized Steerax's cunning and ingenuity and did
            not want to risk diminishing his abilities by casting a spell on
            him.

            9.9.1.2 With promises of wealth and a barony in the inevitable
            Kroug Empire, Steerax pledged allegiance to Kroug and eventually
            took command of nearly a quarter of his army.

        9.9.2 Tarawak arrived from the faraway city of Wattumbria in the land
        of Bam.

            9.9.2.1 After a long and successful career as an officer in the
            Wattumbrian army, he tired of war and resigned.

            9.9.2.2 He had come to these shores intending to live his life in
            solitude in the forests, but he was unaware of the conflict that
            was taking place here.

            9.9.2.3 After several skirmishes and escapes from various armed
            forces, he made friends with a hardy band of lumberjacks.

            9.9.2.4 He taught them enough fighting skills to defend their small
            territory from incursions, and for a while lived the contemplative
            life he had desired.

            9.9.2.5 Kroug wanted this skilled warrior at the head of one of his
            companies, and tried trickery, bribery, and eventually abduction to
            gain his services.

            9.9.2.6 Unwilling to compromise his abilities with the Spell of
            Obedience, Kroug used daily doses of potions and herbs to maintain
            Tarawak's cooperation.

            9.9.2.7 Tarawak led several successful campaigns, but he invariably
            failed Kroug's ultimate test for him, the capture of his old
            comrades the Lumberjacks.

            9.9.2.8 In the process of fine-tuning the magic potions, Kroug
            overestimated Tarawak's mental vigor; his mind came unhinged after
            ingesting a particularly concentrated mixture.

            9.9.2.9 Tarawak escaped into the forest, taking with him fine armor
            and weapons stolen from Kroug; his whereabout are still unknown.

        9.9.3 Razmocudiac was not a formidable man-at-arms, but he was a
        cunning strategist and was given command of specialized teams with
        complex missions.

            9.9.3.1 Trained in a foreign land, he specialized in stealth,
            surprise attacks, and the expert use of terrain for tactical
            advantage.

            9.9.3.2 When non-combatants were sent into the battle, such as
            miners or engineers, they were generally placed in Razmocudiac's
            company to ensure their most effective use.

        9.9.4 The Scribes are certain that there are more generals and other
        officers which merit inclusion in this volume; please advise us of
        anything you have heard about them.

    9.10 Only one non-human retained a prominent position in Kroug's army for
    any length of time:  the great goblin Humjob.

        9.10.1 Humjob killed for the sheer pleasure of killing.

        9.10.2 He loved the smell and sound of battle, and when Kroug would
        dispose of useless prisoners, Humjob would ask him to re-arm them in
        their prison, then wade into their midst to fight them all at once.

        9.10.3 He fought with the heavy spiked chain, a massive, destructive
        weapon.

        9.10.4 He had no head for strategy, and thus could never be a general,
        but because of his great prowess in battle those who followed him
        experienced a great surge in confidence and courage.

    9.11 As his territory and power increased, Kroug made sure to enjoy the
    fruits of his army's labors.

        9.11.1 He built luxurious residence within the heavily armored
        fortress, and filled it with the trappings of a great emperor.

        9.11.2 Captives which he did not induct into this army or kill were
        pressed into the mines, digging for precious stones and metals.

        9.11.3 Similarly, young women were selected for the honor of Kroug's
        personal attention.

    9.12 The most beautiful maiden in the land, Asphodel, was selected to
    become his wife.

        9.12.1 Asphodel was dressed in all the finery of an empress, but these
        were not tokens of love.

        9.12.2 Kroug compelled her to parade in her jewels and silks as a
        symbol of his power and wealth; in private, he had little interest in
        her.

    9.13 Kroug's miners found a few ancient dust-covered eggs in a cavern.

        9.13.1 The eggs were brought to Kroug for inspection.

        9.13.2 Kroug handed Humjob his filigreed sword and bade him crack open
        one of the eggs.

        9.13.3 A strange thick mist emerged and enveloped the sword.

    9.14 Upon examining the sword, Kroug began to understand the magic at work.

        9.14.1 He tried cracking an egg over a large lizard and saw it grow
        into a fearsome monster.

        9.14.2 He cracked one over himself and felt a surge in his conjuring
        abilities.

        9.14.3 With the temporary increase in his strength provided by the
        magic egg, he cast the Spell of Obedience over en entire company of his
        men.

        9.14.4 Kroug sent his miners back to the caverns to retrieve more eggs.

    9.15 Kroug decided to learn more about the magic eggs by using one on
    Asphodel.

        9.15.1 He planned to make her even more beautiful and perpetually
        young, so that he would never need to replace her.

        9.15.2 He cracked the egg over her, but to his amazement she turned
        hideously ugly, an absolute hag!

        9.15.3 Kroug banished her from his sight, and refused to even speak her
        name, calling her instead Anathema.

        9.15.4 Since no one could bear the sight of her, Kroug banished her to
        the caverns from which the eggs had come.

        9.15.5 The miners never did find any more eggs; they returned from the
        caverns in fear, telling of horrible monsters that had chased them
        away.

    9.16 Kroug continued to build his army and enlarge his territory, always
    seeking new forms of magic to increase his personal power.

        9.16.1 In a foray into the northern forests, his troops plundered an
        old church and brought back some tiles bearing strange glyphs.

        9.16.2 The set of glyphs was incomplete, but Kroug was able to decipher
        their message.

        9.16.3 They told of the Behemoth trapped atop the Anvil of Pyros, a
        tall, forbidding mountain in East Calia.

        9.16.4 Kroug left his army in the care of Steerax and, taking only a
        small company of trusted officers, began his journey to the Anvil,
        where he planned to take control of the Behemoth and use it against his
        enemies.

    9.17 The company trekked through the hostile landscape of East Calia, a
    region so inhospitable that only Kroug's magic kept their number intact.

    9.18 Upon arriving at the Anvil of Pyros, the officers made a modest camp
    while Kroug inspected the steep mountainsides.

        9.18.1 The steep walls were pitted and cracked, hinting that a climb up
        one of the sheer faces could be attempted, but the holes were filled
        with a strange fungus.

        9.18.2 The fungus was extremely corrosive, capable of eating into the
        toughest armour, and it ruined any chains or hooks the climbers tried
        to attach to the rock.

        9.18.3 Kroug collected some spores to be added to his warehouse of
        poisons and magical potions and set his officers to scraping the fungus
        away from a narrow strip along which they would eventually make their
        climb.

    9.19 During this time, Kroug became aware of the approach of a renegade
    army led by an elven woman.

        9.19.1 He determined that this woman would be a valuable asset to his
        army, and he devised a plan to lure her toward him.

        9.19.2 He caused some beasts of the forest to travel north where they
        could be found, killed, and eaten by the renegades, and thus persuade
        them that there was good hunting in Kroug's direction.

    9.20 As Caliana approached, Kroug went alone to meet her, lest she be
    tempted to run from a large force.

        9.20.1 He sought to understand the nature of the power he sensed before
        casting any spells to influence her.

        9.20.2 He was surprised and alarmed to find how her band of renegades
        had grown.

        9.20.3 Kroug was generous with her, and when he came to appreciate her
        talents and the value of her companions as soldiers, he offered an
        alliance.

        9.20.4 He even gave her the gift of a fine filigreed sword, a token of
        friendship that could not easily be dismissed at a time when
        high-quality weaponry was scarce.

    9.21 Caliana refused Kroug's offer of mutual assistance.

        9.21.1 She and her companions slipped away while Kroug was busy with
        another matter.

        9.21.2 Anticipating such deception, Kroug had planted a few spores of
        the Devouring Fungus, as his men referred to it, on the gift sword,
        trusting that the corrosive organism would spread to all their weapons
        and render them easy prey.

        9.21.3 He knew that he would have time later to catch up with the
        disarmed renegades and kill or convert them at his leisure, and he
        returned to the Anvil where work was continuing slowly.

    9.22 Just at the moment that Kroug seemed to have secured the means to
    realize his ambitions, disaster struck.

        9.22.1 A great fire swept across the forest all the way to the
        Stonewood.

        9.22.2 The fire spread to the fungus growing on the rock face, so that
        the entire Anvil was engulfed in flame.

        9.22.3 The fire seemed capable of sustaining itself indefinitely as
        more fungus and fire rained down from the upper reaches of the Anvil;
        Kroug and his company were forced to flee and abandon his plan to
        control the Behemoth.

    9.23 Kroug's hatred of Caliana and the Ethereals grew, and the desire for
    revenge dwarfed the lust for power that had previously defined his life.

    9.24 Kroug returned to his pursuit of power and domination, confident that
    he could save Caliana for last; her execution would be the crowning event
    of his conquest.


