                     Volume 5:  The Struggle for Dominance


    5.1 The Dim Time ended in the First Conflagration, the name for the
    concerted and ruthless efforts of a few strong warlords to annihilate all
    opposition.

    5.2 After the demise of the Kyrullians and the complete dissolution of any
    semblance of order, the leaders of some well-armed and well-positioned
    armies saw the chance to consolidate power and perhaps even establish a
    dynasty.

    5.3 Masthron the goblin warlord had his stronghold in the rocky northern
    hills, near a sparse pine forest.

        5.3.1 The ravenous goblin troops devoured everything, including their
        captives.

        5.3.2 Masthron's army defeated Bacco Irontoe, most powerful of the
        hobbit warlords.

        5.3.3 Bacco's troops were corralled in preparation for their being
        served as dinner, but Bacco challenged Masthron to a favorite goblin
        game:  crotch-kicking.

        5.3.4 Masthron's strength and superior constitution gave him an early
        edge, but Bacco managed one deft and destructive kick with his
        sharpened iron toe.

        5.3.5 An escape ensued which began a series of events that would
        eventually lead to Masthron's downfall.

        5.3.6 The iron toe was put in a special place as a valuable souvenir
        which Masthron contemplated at length.

    5.4 Oslewt the gnome built a stone fortress at the edge of Lake Lantia.

        5.4.1 Her army was equipped with remarkably high-quality armour and
        weapons and was well trained in their use.

        5.4.2 The gnome army possessed a few weapons of formidable power, the
        most intimidating of which was Oslewt's own Phobic Probe, a wicked,
        penetrating polearm.

    5.5 Hucker the dwarf's army camped solidly in the middle of the land not
    far from Mt. Kyrus.

        5.5.1 The dwarven army's advantages were central placement and
        mobility.

        5.5.2 By using the lower levels of Mt. Kyrus as observation posts, the
        army could quickly move into an ideal position to intercept any
        approaching enemy.

    5.6 Zarr the human built his stronghold in the dense southern forests,
    adding traps and moats to natural formations of cliffs, hills, and streams
    to forge nearly impenetrable defenses.

        5.6.1 The humans cleared areas of the forest to grow crops and
        livestock, and mined valuable ores from the cliffs to the east.

        5.6.2 Each field, pasture, mine, and quarry was kept to a modest size,
        clearly marked, and assigned to a particular squad to supervise.

        5.6.3 Rather than kill their enemies, the soldiers employed skilled
        captives in the manufacture of weapons and armour, and the unskilled
        were forced to till the fields and tend the livestock.

    5.7 It was Hucker who first suggested an alliance of the four major powers.

        5.7.1 Hucker could observe the relative strengths and positions of the
        four great armies, and he determined that no one was strong enough to
        conquer the others.

        5.7.2 He also noted the drain on his army and on the other three armies
        that was inflicted by the skirmishes with minor forces.

        5.7.3 He sent emissaries to the other three warlords, who were
        impressed with the dwarves' knowledge of each army's strength and
        deployment.

        5.7.4 The four warlords negotiated through emissaries warily, unable to
        agree on a forum for all to meet, until Hucker finally suggested they
        get together for a game of Omber.

        5.7.5 Omber was an ancient game they all knew, and its rules dictated a
        strict decorum that ensured that all could participate as equals.

        5.7.6 With persistence, persuasion, and a few gifts, Hucker managed to
        get the other warlords to agree to meet on the plains and talk of their
        futures over a game of Omber.

    5.8 The warlords met daily in a great tent erected on the grassy fields
    south of Mt. Kyrus and west of Lake Lantia.

        5.8.1 In sight of forward elements of Oslewt's, Hucker's, and Zarr's
        armies, and with Masthron's impressive escort of conspicuously huge
        goblin warriors, none of the warlords had any opportunity to make a
        move against the others.

        5.8.2 An entire week was spent settling the rules under which they
        would sit down to play the game.

        5.8.3 Eventually, they began play in earnest, and as trust developed
        among the four, they discussed details of a possible treaty.

    5.9 The announcement of the Omber Dominion was met with jubilation in the
    four warlords' camps.

        5.9.1 An unspoken but pervasive worry among all the troops had been the
        possibility of a protracted war of attrition among the main powers.

        5.9.2 The news spread out among the troops like waves from a stone
        thrown into a pond; goblin messengers, with guarantee of safe passage
        through Hucker's territory, took the news north.

    5.10 The four great warlords became a war council, called the Quartan,
    which set about eliminating all possible rivals to their power.

        5.10.1 The four major armies developed a tactic of assaulting an enemy
        from several directions at once, usually with the tireless goblins
        chasing the prey into a pocket formed by the other three.

        5.10.2 Kroug's own forces, under the direction of his generals, were
        particularly effective in using small, highly coordinated teams to
        break up the enemy's formations.

        5.10.3 Minor warlords who resisted were eliminated; the smart ones
        joined with one of the armies of the Quartan.

        5.10.4 The Quartan was extraordinarily successful, and soon all
        significant resistance to the alliance was crushed.

    5.11 Once control was firmly established, the Quartan turned its attention
    to the administration of its territory.

        5.11.1 Idleness among the troops led to skirmishes between factions of
        their armies.

        5.11.2 Officers filled some of their time by playing Omber, but fights
        and accusations often resulted, sometimes leading to deaths.

        5.11.3 The four armies, who had fought side-by-side during the
        conquest, began to withdraw into their own territories.

        5.11.4 The Quartan continued to observe the peace among themselves, but
        with increasing suspicion.

    5.12 After the death of Zarr (explained further in Kroug), the Omber
    Dominion gradually transformed into four separate domains with little
    cooperation between the main warlords.

        5.12.1 Goryn, Zarr's second son, took over command of his army for a
        period of about 40 years and his place in the Quartan, and ruled
        effectively enough to prevent encroachment by the other warlords.

        5.12.2 While he did not lose territory, he did lose the confidence of
        some officers and troops, notably most of the elven contingent, who
        slipped away into the forest during border patrols.

    5.13 Goryn made one last compact with the others of the Quartan - to
    provide his elder brother safe passage from the coast to the southern
    forest upon his return from his travels abroad.

        5.13.1 Kroug returned from abroad, and the aura of dark magic
        surrounding him was evident even to the goblins.

        5.13.2 Hucker, Masthron, and Oslewt recognized the threat of Kroug and
        conspired to cause his "accidental" death.

        5.13.3 Kroug discovered their treachery and, using his spells of
        confusion and influence, sowed discord among them.

        5.13.4 Kroug replaced Goryn as the leader of the human army upon his
        return to the territory that had been ruled by Zarr.

    5.14 Masthron's hold on power was the first to dissolve, caused as much by
    conflict within his army (described further in Caliana) as from without.

    5.15 The power vacuum left by Masthron's decline required a realignment of
    forces on the continent, and Kroug began his campaign to dominate all of
    the land now known as Calia.


