                             Volume 7:  The Passage


    7.1 The Pack marches east until they reach the forest edge, where their
    progress is stopped by a wide river.

    7.2 The hobbits warn against moving farther north into a densely wooded
    valley, and with no means of fording the river and the goblins closing in
    from the west and south, they make rafts and float down the river, flowing
    mostly east, toward the unknown.

    7.3 First day of the  trip - it looks like the goblin army has been left
    far behind.

    7.4 Second day of raft trip - salty smell at sunset makes them suspect that
    they are approaching a sea; while camped on shore, Caliana is able to make
    a lengthy journal entry about the past few day's experiences.

    7.5 The river dwindles as it turns southeast through a bleak landscape; the
    rafts are abandoned as the Pack continues on foot.

    7.6 The group east toward some distant mountains, finding enough sustenance
    from the local plants.

    7.7 They meet Hurn, a young but white-haired human, and Murl Brightwater, a
    hobbit with flame-red hair, who tell the story of their shipwreck here and
    their survival by hunting and fishing.

    7.8 Some of Caliana's followers express doubts about Hurn and Murl.

    7.9 Hurn warns of danger further southeast; Marrock and Krom figure he's
    hiding something and advise a search of the area.

    7.10 The Shrews capture the search party.

    7.11 Caliana confronts the Shrews, who respect her as a fellow female
    warrior and are impressed that she leads such a varied Pack.  They lead her
    north to their headquarters.

    7.12 Hermione tells the history of the Shrews.

    7.13 The Shrews and the Pack build some trust and share their experiences
    in East Calia.

    7.14 Hermione gives Caliana a gift of a lance made from blue cypress.  Hurn
    provides Caliana with a suitable token to exchange - his fine military
    cutlass.

    7.15 The meager resources of the Shrews' territory will not support the
    Wolf Pack, and the hosts are uneasy about the presence of so many male
    warriors despite the general mutual trust which has been built.

    7.16 The Pack heads south with the Shrew guide Beauwyn, a young dwarf, who
    will lead them south away from the large armies in the adjacent hills and
    forests.

    7.17 The Pack passes through the strange landscape of East Calia and stops
    to rest in the Stonewood, a vast petrified forest.  Murl tells a story
    about the scary darkness known as Night, which most of the Pack have never
    seen.

    7.18 Caliana discovers the strange fruits of the Stonewood.

    7.19 The Pack continues through the Stonewood; food supplies are low.

    7.20 A few large game animals appear and are killed and eaten.  Hurn
    assures Caliana that such occurrences are rare.

    7.21 There is much talk of turning back north or to the west.  Beauwyn
    assures them that they are on the right path.

    7.22 More game animals mysteriously appear just when they're needed;
    everyone is suspicious.  Murl tells a story of the dazzling Birds of
    Paradise she has seen in her travels.  Caliana has a strange dream in which
    she imagines herself a Bird of Paradise.

    7.23 The Pack explores in small scouting parties.

    7.24 Caliana encounters the *Dark Traveller, who invites the Pack to feast
    with his small company.

    7.25 The Dark Traveller, who never reveals his name, hosts the Pack for
    dinner.  His ability to provide a sumptuous feast even though he has few in
    his company and no visible stores arouses great anxiety.

    7.26 The Dark Traveller invites the Pack to join with him and come to his
    stronghold in the southeast.  He gives Caliana a fine filigreed sword as a
    token of respect, and Caliana is ready to offer her blue *cypress lance,
    but only if the Traveller will reveal his name.  He declines, and she
    withholds the lance.

    7.27 The pack travels south, and there is suspicion that some of the
    Traveller's men are following and spying on them.

    7.28 A wild boar attacks Murl; Marrock comes to the rescue.  Murl doesn't
    seem to be much of a fighter.  The slaughtered boar makes for excellent
    eating as Murl shows off her culinary skills.

    7.29 The Pack moves on, refreshed by both the fine meal and the change in
    landscape, which leaves the Stonewood behind and leads over tricky terrain
    to green landscape in the distance.  Avoiding the steep mountain range to
    the southeast, the Pack moves southwest.

    7.30 A unfamiliar gray fungus appears on several pieces of armour and
    weapons; for now, it is only a nuisance and is easily washed off.

    7.31 The trail southwest leads to a live forest, and food supplies become
    plentiful again.

    7.32 The Pack moves deeper into the forest; travel is slow, but there is no
    hurry.

    7.33 They find a lush valley, wooded and laced with many small streams, an
    excellent place to rest.

    7.34 There is much talk of settling here; Caliana sends parties out to
    scout the nearby areas.  Hurn teaches rudesong to some male members of the
    Pack.

    7.35 Murl tells a story about the Moon.

    7.36 Marrock disappears; some of the scouting parties are late to return.

    7.37 Marrock returns, injured by the fungus and telling of the trail of
    destruction that it has left all the way from the Stonewood.

    7.38 Caliana observes the destruction herself and realizes that the fungus
    must have been spread by the Wolf Pack.  She feels she must take some
    action, lest the fungus destroy the entire forest.

    7.39 Marrock experiments with the fungus and determines that it will burn
    easily.

    7.40 The fire burns the fungus while sparing the bulk of the well-watered
    forest.  It also flushes out Doe, a young elven woman who had been spying
    on them.  She explains that her lover, Allerdice, had been captured by
    "Kroug's men," as she puts it, and she begs the Pack to help her rescue him
    before "he is beyond rescue."

    7.41 Caliana is reticent to take on this unknown enemy, but Beauwyn
    immediately pledges her support to a fellow courageous female.  Caliana
    asks for more details, then plots a strategy to rescue Allerdice.

    7.42 Caliana makes some final notes before the battle of Toad-in-Oak
    begins.  The journal is then hidden in a hollow tree, along with a few
    other precious personal items that members of the Pack wish to preserve.

    7.43 No entry.

    7.44 No entry.

    7.45 Caliana records the events of the past two days:
         The Pack moves in to surround the elven village of Toad-in-Oak, now
         controlled by the enemy.  They free Allerdice and other prisoners who
         had been bundled for delivery to Kroug, and kill many of the enemy
         soldiers.  Allerdice explains what has been happening, and Caliana
         realizes who the Dark Traveller really was.  Caliana notices Odium's
         fighting style in the battle at Toad-in-Oak and asks Odium to teach it
         to other Pack members.

    7.46 Understanding how large and powerful Kroug's army must be, Caliana
    turns the Pack due west at a fast pace.  They come upon the Lumberjacks.
    Beauwyn arranges for them to rest a day there, then departs north to rejoin
    the Shrews.  Krom and Odium argue over battle tactics.

    7.47 Odium teaches maul technique to Krom.

    7.48 Buckhorn the Lumberjack tells the story of Tarawak, founder of the
    guild and erstwhile prisoner of Kroug.

    7.49 The Pack continues west.  Stealthily crossing a low mountain range,
    the catch a glimpse of Oslewt's gnome army and its stone fortress near Lake
    Lantia.  Odium and Krom teach maul technique to Hurn and Marrock.

    7.50 The pack is attacked by a small patrol of krougs.  Hurn is the hero,
    wading into their formation and mauling it into pieces the rest of the pack
    can dispose of.  Caliana calls him "my great white wolf."  Marrock rescues
    Murl, whose defensive skills are sorely lacking.

    7.51 Allerdice and Doe show Caliana secret passages and hiding places so
    that they may evade further kroug patrols, and they pledge to join the Wolf
    Pack.  They had planned to marry as soon as possible, but Kroug is their
    sworn enemy; they will wait until the fight against him is won.

    7.52 Many in the Pack want to become maulers, but Marrock reminds them that
    their strength lies in their swarming attack.

    7.53 Hurn tells of the Maritime Guild in Gelan, which the Pack can count on
    for assistance, and more details of his mysterious shipwreck in the harbor
    there.  Caliana recognizes the place he is describing as the tiny village
    of her birth.

    7.54 Caliana counsels with her wisest companions and decides to head the
    Pack for the coast.  Marrock finds a white pumpkin.

    7.55 The Pack takes a northwesterly route to avoid the open plains and take
    advantage of cover in the Great Central Forest.

    7.56 A skirmish with a patrol from Hucker's dwarven army turns the Pack
    northward at a fast pace.

    7.57 Having evaded the dwarves, the Pack camps in a secluded bend of a low
    mountain range, waiting for foul weather.

    7.58 When heavy rains come, the Pack can cross the mountains without being
    spotted by Hucker's sentries.

    7.59 The Pack arrives in an undefended coastal village.  Despite many
    changes due to the ravages of previous goblin occupation, Caliana
    recognizes it as her home.

    7.60 The Pack negotiates with the locals and takes up residence in the
    town, which they name Gelan.


