                            Volume 10:  Mount Kyrus


    10.1 With the local warlords defeated or absorbed into her army, Caliana
    found herself in a position to make Gelan and the surrounding area a safe
    haven.

        10.1.1 Despite her success, she was tormented by strange dreams and
        premonitions.

        10.1.2 She spent much of her time with Nimnal, a respected philosopher
        and scholar of arcane magic, who attempted to discern the significance
        of her dreams.

        10.1.3 Upon his advice, and over the objections of her closest
        companions, she undertook a solitary journey south into the eerie
        mist-covered moors.

    10.2 In the moors, she encountered the four obelisks which Raspatoon had
    used to prove that the sun was not completely stationary in the sky.

        10.2.1 Raspatoon had carefully measured the tiny shadows cast by the
        obelisks, which printed nearly straight at the sun, and measured the
        slight differences that coincided with the migrations of lemmings.

        10.2.2 It is evident that Caliana stopped to inspect the obelisks, but
        what happened then she has never explained.

        10.2.3 Caliana disappeared without a trace.

    10.3 Hurn found Caliana several weeks later on the road just south of
    Gelan.

        10.3.1 She was dazed and incoherent, babbling about demons, spirits,
        and angels.

        10.3.2 In her absence, the warriors had fallen into discord, some
        forming search parties, some trying to appoint a new leader, some
        conducting raids on nearby territories.

        10.3.3 The Guild's efforts remained unfocused while Caliana regained
        her strength and senses under the care of Nimnal.

        10.3.4 When she had recovered, Caliana sent word throughout her army
        that she would deliver an important address.

        10.3.5 She assigned Marrock and Krom to assist Nimnal in the forging of
        strange medallions to be given to each of her warriors.

        10.3.6 On the morning of the day which we now celebrate as Founding
        Day, Caliana stood on the highest dune on Gelan Beach and delivered the
        fateful speech.

