                       Volume 2:  Calian Flora and Fauna

    2.1 Plant life in Calia began to change during the years of warfare, and
    the change continues today.

        2.1.1 Dense leaves and vines still dominate large areas, making travel
        by horse nearly impossible.

        2.1.2 Grasslands, perhaps springing from foreign seed, appeared as
        armies repeated trampled more delicate plants and flourish at the
        expense of native plants.

        2.1.3 Fields of wildflowers, once vast, are also giving way to the
        grasslands.

    2.2 A variety of useful trees flourish in Calia.

        2.2.1 Oaks, birches, and various evergreens can be found in vast
        forests.

        2.2.2 The Great Central Forest is divided into northern and southern
        ranges by the Argos River, with the northern range dominated by
        conifers and the southern by hardwoods.

        2.2.3 Willows grow in dense stands scattered throughout the land,
        creating shady canopies under which Calians traditionally bury their
        dead.

        2.2.4 The rarest and most valuable wood comes from the blue cypresses
        of East Calia.

    2.3 Some large mammals still roam Calia, although the wars reduced their
    numbers and pushed most of them into the far reaches of the land.

        2.3.1 Cattle and sheep can be found both wild and domesticated.

        2.3.2 Wild boar are among the most dangerous of Calian wildlife.

        2.3.3 A number of distinct species of wolf prowl all regions of Calia.

            2.3.3.1 The silver wolf is named for its gray and white variegated
            coat which looks like flowing quicksilver when it moves.

            2.3.3.2 The golden wolf is a fierce pack hunter which travels and
            attacks in large numbers.

            2.3.3.3 The white wolf is the largest of Calian wolves.

            2.3.3.4 The timber wolf is small and not very aggressive, and a few
            of them have even been reported to have been domesticated.

            2.3.3.5 The black wolf is a hybrid, the result of a cross between
            two other species, and reports of its characteristics vary wildly.

            2.3.3.6 The gray wolf patrols low, flat land and was nearly killed
            off entirely during the war years.

            2.3.3.7 Rarest of all is the mountain wolf, and little is known of
            its habits.

    2.4 Small mammals reproduce prolifically in the changing landscape, and it
    seems they have benefitted from the incursion of grasses.

        2.4.1 Lemmings travel in great masses across the land with such
        regularity that some villages based their calendars on the migrations.

        2.4.2 Gopheroos can be found in open ground where they can evade
        predators with their zig-zag running ability.

        2.4.3 Hamsters are new to Calia, tiny but ferocious residents of the
        spreading grasslands.

        2.4.4 Other rodents are also common, such as the white-coated creamy
        weasel and the long-tusked boar mouse.

    2.5 Reptiles can be found in the warm lowlands near large rocks or trees in
    whose shadows they can hide.

        2.5.1 Turtles, while not classified into distinct species, appear in a
        variety of colored and patterned shells, and some artisans make jewelry
        or decorative objects from their shells.

        2.5.2 Lizards seem to be in decline as the grasslands are not as well
        suited to them as the ancient tracts of leaves and vines.

    2.6 Calia is famous for its great variety of frogs, and many distinct
    species have been cataloged.

        2.6.1 Dwarf Tree Frogs vary in color from yellow to orange, and their
        bright skins are often marked with a few contrasting stripes.

        2.6.2 Marine Frogs are lean, muscular long-distance swimmers, and a
        close relatives of the Lantia Frog.

        2.6.3 Lantia Frogs are the champion swimmers of Calian frogs,
        surpassing even the ability of their stockier cousins.

        2.6.4 It is unknown whether the name of the Bipiti frog is derived from
        its prolonged call, "bipiti-bipiti-bipiti-bipiti-bipiti", or whether it
        is just a corruption of the common nickname "big pink thing."

        2.6.5 Green Frogs are prolific breeders and can be found in great
        numbers in the streams and ponds of Calian woodlands.

    2.7 Calia is home to a variety of birds.

        2.7.1 Predatory birds have always flourished regions where small game
        is plentiful.

            2.7.1.1 Eagles inhabit mountainous areas where they prey on lizards
            and small mammals, particularly lemmings.

            2.7.1.2 Hawks are elusive residents of the deep forest; while it is
            suspected that there are several different varieties, they have not
            been observed frequently enough to be cataloged.

            2.7.1.3 Falcons are swift hunters of the open plains, once rare but
            now becoming more common above the spreading grasslands.

            2.7.1.4 Ospreys nest and hunt in the waters of the Thalassian Sea.

        2.7.2 Songbirds inhabit the forests and fields of Calia, attracted by
        the abundant wildflowers whose seeds are their principal food.

    2.8 Some Calian naturalists have recorded the habits and characteristics of
    native insects.

        2.8.1 Humblebugs are so named because of their unusual posture, head to
        the ground in a perpetual close-up search for food, which makes them
        seem to be bowing.

        2.8.2 Bees live in hives ranging from a few decimeters in diameter to
        vast complexes spread over many meters.

        2.8.3 Poisonous biting centipedes are a threat only if one enters the
        deep, dank caverns where they dwell.

        2.8.4 Flocks of butterflies have always been one of the great natural
        beauties of Calia, and the Landscaping Department is determined to
        preserve the wildflowers upon which they and songbirds depend.


