                               Volume 6:  Caliana


    6.1 Caliana was born during the heyday of the Omber Dominion in a small
    village which was later to become Gelan.

        6.1.1 The village lay on a small, flat plain surrounded by a natural
        moat, strategically unimportant and therefore largely ignored by the
        armies that ravaged the rest of the land.

        6.1.2 She enjoyed the simple, traditional life of her people for only a
        few years as war loomed ever closer on the horizon.

        6.1.3 Tall and strong for an elf child, she was a great help to her
        family in acquiring food and other resources as the war created
        scarcities.

    6.2 At about the age of eight, her village, populated by a variety of
    farmers and traders, was raided by the goblin army of Masthron.

        6.2.1 The army was divided into mobs of fighters, each of which was
        headed by a boss.

        6.2.2 After the mobs has plundered the village, they squabbled among
        themselves, as always, for ownership of the loot.

    6.3 Some of the populace were deemed valuable by Masthron and spared.

        6.3.1 Masthron had hoped to employ Raspatoon's magic, but Raspatoon
        confounded him again and again with spells that "almost" worked.

        6.3.2 Ska Muesli the banker was conscripted to handle the army's
        payroll, but he managed to pay himself more than the rest of the army
        combined.

    6.4 Most were consigned to the cooking-pot, as they were deemed unfit for
    military service.

        6.4.1 Caliana's parents were killed during the futile defense of the
        village, but Caliana was captured alive.

        6.4.2 She was delivered to the mess-area to be cooked along with many
        other elves, hobbits, and humans.

    6.5 Odium the Mongrel was the army's chief blacksmith, forging weapons,
    armours, and various tools.

        6.5.1 Odium was, as the warrior Marrock would one day put it, "a goblin
        of singular countenance and demeanor."

        6.5.2 All that is known of his early years is that he wandered into
        Masthron's camp one day from the forest.

        6.5.3 His peculiar appearance, with unusually long arms that dragged on
        the ground when he walked and a stubby tail, elicited derision from the
        other goblins in Masthron's employ.

        6.5.4 Odium found employment as their blacksmith, and he set up his
        forge near the mess area, sometimes even sharing the same fire with the
        cook.

        6.5.5 While the goblin army found him useful, they nonetheless refused
        to socialize with him, and he led a lonely, solitary existence.

    6.6 Odium spotted the young Caliana crying in a corner of the food-pen and
    an opportunity to relieve his incessant loneliness presented itself.

        6.6.1 Hoping that such a small morsel would never be missed, Odium
        snatched Caliana from the food-pen and hid her in his great pile of
        scrap iron.

        6.6.2 Caliana's disappearance from the food-pen was never noticed, and
        the goblin army, hardly interested in the management of the forge, soon
        accepted her as Odium's assistant.

        6.6.3 She was still prone to periods of crying, and Odium soothed her
        tears with sweet treats, sometimes braving the stings of hundreds of
        bees to fetch her a honeycomb.

        6.6.4 Caliana did not have the strength for heavy ironwork, but she was
        a quick study at polishing and honing, and soon she was able to improve
        the quality of the weapons Odium produced.

        6.6.5 As she grew, Odium found other uses for her, especially in
        assessing the capabilities of captured enemy weapons and improving the
        balance and grip of his own.

    6.7 Over the years, Caliana gained both tutoring and practical experience
    in combat, as the remote area devoted to forge and cooking was often raided
    by small parties of freebooters or advance forces from enemy armies.

        6.7.1 As she grew to the age of 17, she developed into a tall and
        beautiful elven woman.

        6.7.2 She drew the attention of the dwarf Bathos, who had joined
        Mathron's army after his own warlord had been defeated.

        6.7.3 After proving his worth in several battles, Bathos was offered
        the position of Boss, which carried with it the privilege of wandering
        about the camp without supervision.

    6.8 Bathos accosted Caliana one day while she was searching for herbs in
    the forest.

        6.8.1 She managed to free herself from his grasp and flee back to the
        mess-area.

        6.8.2 There Bathos and several of his dwarven fellows surrounded her.

        6.8.3 Caliana killed him with Odium's huge iron cooking spoon, which
        she wielded expertly and used to parry Bathos' every axe blow.

    6.9 News of the killing of Bathos was quickly shouted though the camp, and
    while Caliana made a mad dash for the river, hoping to swim to freedom, the
    perimeter guards captured her.

    6.10 When she was brought before Masthron, Odium was already there,
    claiming that he had killed Bathos.

        6.10.1 Caliana admitted killing him, and several witnesses also shouted
        in agreement.

        6.10.2 Other dwarves, not wanting to concede that an elven woman had
        killed mighty Bathos, claimed that they had seen Odium kill him.

    6.11 Masthron made the wisest decision a goblin could make:  he ordered
    both of them put to the trial.

        6.11.1 Goblin justice was rather primitive:  put the accused to a test
        which could not possibly be survived, and you don't have to worry about
        an appeal.

        6.11.2 Masthron felt certain that this elven woman would be of no help
        to Odium, so he sent them together to the trial.

    6.12 The trial consisted of throwing the prisoners into a geyser which
    erupted at regular intervals.

        6.12.1 The hole from which the geyser erupted was deep with smooth
        sides, so climbing out was impossible.

        6.12.2 This hole was quiet and empty most of the time, but once a day
        it suddenly and violently filled with steam and boiling water.

        6.12.3 After the eruption, the goblins would lower a rope so the
        "survivors" could be pulled out, but in all their history they had
        never seen anyone escape death by scalding.

    6.13 After the eruption, the goblins lowered the rope as usual, making
    various grotesque comments about how they hope these tasty boiled morsels
    can be retrieved with hooks.

        6.13.1 Caliana and Odium climbed out unharmed!

        6.13.2 In a new twist on goblin justice, Caliana and Odium were both
        declared innocent of murder, and the goblin scribe dutifully changed
        the record of Bathos to show that he still lived.

    6.14 With no precedent for prisoners surviving the trial, Masthron was
    dumbfounded by their success and could think of no better result than to
    accept Caliana into his army.

        6.14.1 When no Boss would accept Caliana as a fighter, Masthron decreed
        that she could be her own Boss, and Odium became her first fighter.

        6.14.2 Marrock and Krom, two human conscripts, saw an opportunity to
        arrange an escape for themselves and their comrades, and they convinced
        many humans, as well as a few others, to join Caliana.

    6.15 Caliana's mob was derisively called the Flies or Worms by the other
    goblins.

        6.15.1 All mobs in Masthron's army bore the insignia of an animal -
        lion, bear, dragon, etc.

        6.15.2 Caliana chose the wolf as her symbol.

        6.15.3 The goblin Bosses continued to ridicule her troops and refused
        to call them the Wolves, and as the newest and smallest of the Bosses,
        Caliana was in no position to object.

        6.15.4 Some of her followers got into fights over the name, but Marrock
        proved to be a stabilizing influence, persuading them to bide their
        time and ignore the taunting of the goblins.

    6.16 Few goblins joined Caliana's mob, with the result that the Wolves
    found themselves ill-suited to execute standard goblin battle tactics.

        6.16.1 Typical goblin attacks were in a single wave which was designed
        to assault the enemy over such a wide front that any weak points in his
        line would crack immediately.

        6.16.2 Goblin tactics had little provision for defensive maneuvers
        other than to run away en masse if the tide of battle turned against
        them.

    6.17 Caliana devised tactics better suited to her small but highly
    maneuverable mob, and from their resemblance to the coordinated tactics of
    the golden wolves of the nearby forest, her followers began to refer to
    themselves as the Wolf Pack.

        6.17.1 The Pack attacked in a tight formation, making many of its
        members difficult targets for enemy weapons.

        6.17.2 The formations also obscured the movement of some members from
        the enemy, allowing them to execute flanking maneuvers and strike at
        the enemy from the side or rear.

    6.18 The Pack distinguished itself in several skirmishes as it refined its
    battle tactics.

        6.18.1 Of particular interest to Masthron was the Pack's low casualty
        rate.

        6.18.2 Other bosses, jealous of the attention given to Caliana, began
        to circulate rumors that the Pack was taking on only the weakest and
        least-defended targets.

        6.18.3 Masthron was swayed by these rumors and decided to let the Pack
        play a special role in the next big battle.

    6.19 Masthron attacked the hobbit warlord Bacco, whose troops were firmly
    entrenched in the pine forest to the northeast.

        6.19.1 The hobbits used the trees to their advantage, felling many and
        making obstacles to trip and block the clumsy goblins during their
        charges.

        6.19.2 A frontal assault by the goblins found weaknesses in the hobbit
        lines, but the breaches were sealed too quickly for any advantage to be
        won.

        6.19.3 Masthron sent the Wolf Pack into the fray, ordering them to
        drive a wedge into the hobbit lines.

    6.20 Caliana's mob charged, but split into two groups as it neared the
    enemy.

        6.20.1 A small tight group of humans and goblins, led by Odium, drove
        straight for the hobbits while the rest of the Pack feigned retreat.

        6.20.2 After taking only slight damage, the forward group began to fall
        back, but slowly.

        6.20.3 Sensing an easy kill, a section of the hobbit line moved forward
        to surround this group, exposing their own flanks.

        6.20.4 Odium and his group drove forward, slamming hard into the middle
        of the enemy line, stunning it with tremendous blows, and engaging at
        such close quarters that the hobbits were unable to maneuver.

        6.20.5 Caliana's main force wheeled and drove into the flanks and fell
        upon them, as Odium observed, like a "swarm of bees."

        6.20.6 They opened huge breaches in the hobbit line through which the
        bulk of Masthron's army poured.

    6.21 Having routed the hobbits, the goblins set about plundering and
    slaughtering.

        6.21.1 The goblin bosses let their troops kill the hobbits wholesale in
        anticipation of feasting on them.

        6.21.2 Caliana, however, forbade her Pack to kill its prisoners, and
        also forbade them to hunt down those who managed to run away.

        6.21.3 Masthron was incensed at this breach of goblin tradition until
        he realized that among her prisoners was the illustrious Bacco Irontoe
        himself.

    6.22 In an attempt to save the hobbits who had been captured by Caliana,
    Bacco challenged Masthron to a contest to decide if they lived or died.

        6.22.1 Masthron was amused by the slight hobbit's challenge, and he
        agreed to settle the matter with a favorite goblin sport.

        6.22.2 The contest was set for the evening of that same day, just
        before the great victory feast; the players would compete in front of
        the big boiling cauldron in which the hobbits were to be cooked.

        6.22.3 Caliana's defense of the hobbit prisoners only intensified the
        other bosses' distrust of her and her Pack.

    6.23 The contest would be a simple game of crotch-kicking.

        6.23.1 The contest was conducted in the usual manner - whoever was the
        first to fall over and be unable to stand after a count of three would
        lose.

        6.23.2 Both players and the spectators, other than the hobbit prisoners
        and the Wolf Pack guarding them, drank heavily before and during the
        competition.

        6.23.3 Masthron forfeited a vital piece of anatomy but was still able
        to stand (in fact, he then had quite an advantage in future games).

        6.23.4 Bacco lost and was killed on the spot; Masthron took his iron
        toe as a souvenir.

        6.23.5 Drunk and incensed by his injury, Masthron ordered Caliana and
        her followers executed and served with the hobbits in a mixed grill.

    6.24 Caliana and the hobbit prisoners instantly realized that their only
    hope lay in joining forces for an escape.

        6.24.1 Her forces were still heavily outnumbered by the rest of the
        goblin army.

        6.24.2 However, they had the advantages of sobriety and being in
        possession of their weapons.

    6.25 Odium overturned the cauldron, scalding and scattering many goblins,
    and over the uproar bellowed "swarm, swarm!"

        6.25.1 Caliana's mob understood his cry instantly, and they repeated
        the wheeling maneuvers that had been successful earlier in the day,
        sweeping into the disorganized goblins before they could form a battle
        line.

        6.25.2 In the confusion, the hobbits were able to retrieve a good
        number of weapons from the pile of loot in the center of the camp.

    6.26 Caliana's mob made a dash for the pine forest with the goblin army in
    hot pursuit.

        6.26.1 The hobbits' knowledge of the terrain gave them an edge in
        evading the goblin army.

        6.26.2 The drunken goblins inflicted a few casualties, but the bulk of
        the Pack made it to the forest where they disappeared into the shadows
        under the dense canopy.

        6.26.3 They realized that the goblins would soon regroup and begin
        hunting them down, and that it was imperative to find a safe haven.

    6.27 Caliana addressed her followers, telling them that there was no
    turning back.

        6.27.1 She offered to lead all who would follow to safety; all who
        would not follow her were free to make their own way.

        6.27.2 All agreed that their best chance for survival was to follow
        Caliana.

        6.27.3 They marched to the northeast until they were exhausted, and
        even a bit further as Odium carried the first few to drop.

    6.28 As they rested, a hobbit survivor named Elvira, an educated officer
    and the daughter of a scribe, gave Caliana a gift in thanks for saving her
    life:  her mother's precious onyx pen, a bottle of ink, and a small
    leather-bound journal.

        6.28.1 The hobbit figured that Caliana was likely to survive the
        longest of all, and she asked her to record the events that befell the
        Pack as it sought safe haven.

        6.28.2 Caliana promised to do so, and the contents of her journal are
        now known as The Passage.


