                            Volume 16:  Modern Times

    16.1 Calia finally turned its attention away from war.

    16.2 Marrock, with Alamog as his deputy, encouraged the partnership system,
    in which mixed-race groups of entrepreneurs were given tax and rent
    benefits for newly formed enterprises.

        16.2.1 Bithnu the gnome and Phidmeck the dwarf set themselves up as
        surveyors and mapmakers.

        16.2.2 Shimram the human and Mezzlebeb the elf became well-known
        scribes as the demand for tales and songs of the Guild's exploits
        increased.

        16.2.3 Mleck the dwarf and Fneeb the goblin founded the Gourmet Club
        and became purveyors of delicacies to satisfy the tastes of the
        multifarious population of Calia.

        16.2.4 A number of adventurous Calians started quarrying and mining
        operations in East Calia, providing marble and granite for construction
        and salt for export.

    16.3 The influence of foreign customs and ideas is reflected in a number of
    social and cultural organizations which have arisen since the war's end.

        16.3.1 The Heartbreakers Club is an elitist society whose membership
        was restricted to only the most beautiful residents.

        16.3.2 The Dashing Rogues perpetuate the style, if not the substance,
        of the most celebrated heroes of the great war.

        16.3.3 The Gourmet Club offers the services of both a fine restaurant
        and several banquet rooms with scenic views to members and their
        guests; non-members may still make use of the shop on the lower level.

            16.3.3.1 When Confederation Hall was rebuilt with a stone facade,
            the Club moved in.

            16.3.3.2 In memory of Murl, the first Gourmet of Calia, they
            renamed it *Brightwater Hall.

        16.3.4 The Intellectual League has severe entrance requirements, but
        its members are respected as sources of rational advice.

        16.3.5 The Rude Wooden Men are a strange lot, meeting in a rude wooden
        hut.

    16.4 In addition to the Calian Warriors, several guilds have been founded
    which attract a variety of applicants, both native Calians and newcomers.

        16.4.1 The Physicians provide medical services to the sick and injured.

        16.4.2 The Counsellors are a guild of legal experts who assist citizens
        and visitors in their official dealing with the Administrator.

        16.4.3 The Maritime Guild promotes trade though the exploration of new
        sea routes.

    16.5 Alas, the land is also host to people and organizations whose aims are
    contrary to those of the Confederation.

        16.5.1 Krougians are a strange folk who neither support the
        Confederation nor openly oppose it.

            16.5.1.1 Descendants of krougs, they do not have the burnt
            appearance of their ancestors.

            16.5.1.2 The strangeness of their appearance is entirely in their
            eyes, a shade of gray so pale that they seem to be nearly white,
            completely devoid of pupils.

            16.5.1.3 They seem neither evil nor threatening, yet they are an
            untrustworthy lot, and their actions are often erratic and
            unexplainable.

        16.5.2 The Meat Cult is a secretive group composed largely of
        krougians, and little is known of them other than their motto:  Meat is
        Strength.

