                        Volume 15:  War Legend of Calia

    15.1 Allerdice and Doe, having promised to wait until the enemy was
    defeated before getting married, are finally able to set a date.

        15.1.1 It was the first wedding that many Calians had had an
        opportunity to attend, and a public invitation was posted in Gelan and
        other towns.

        15.1.2 Since it was the only building large enough to hold the
        multitude of expected guests, *Confederation Hall was cleared of all
        furniture to make room for dancing.

        15.1.3 Murl, good at organizing and at cooking, took charge of the
        planning for the celebration.

    15.2 Krom agrees to perform the ceremony.

        15.2.1 Allerdice and Doe had planned to ask Caliana, but she was still
        healing from her injuries in the Great Battle, and she understood
        perfectly their reluctance to wait any longer.

        15.2.2 Krom and Caliana discussed the particulars of the ceremony at
        length and devised a few special provisions for the benefit of the
        couple.

        15.2.3 Your views on Calian wedding customs are solicited.

    15.3 After the ceremony, the wedding party and guests moved into
    Confederation Hall for feasting and dancing.

        15.3.1 After the toasts and congratulations, Murl slipped the happy
        couple out of the hall and escorted them to the Calian Inn, where they
        would spend their honeymoon.

        15.3.2 As Murl returned through the town square, she noticed krougs at
        work, piling up furniture against the side of Confederation Hall and
        preparing to set it ablaze.

    15.4 Murl tried to shout a warning, but she could not be heard over the
    noise of the continuing celebration and only succeeded in drawing the
    attention of the krougs.

        15.4.1 She ran to the bell tower and sounded the alarm, which prompted
        the celebrants to take notice of the danger.

        15.4.2 Their plot foiled, the krougs collapsed the pile of pitch-soaked
        furniture on Murl, who was pinned against the facade of the hall.

        15.4.3 The krougs set the pile ablaze before the emerging warriors
        could drive them away.

    15.5 Warriors from within the hall rushed to attack the krougs.

        15.5.1 All of the krougs were killed or driven off.

        15.5.2 A bucket brigade managed to save much of Confederation Hall, but
        not before Murl died in the fire.

    15.6 Caliana conducted Murl's funeral in a willow grove east of Gelan and
    for her valor awarded her posthumously the title War Legend of Calia.

