                          Volume 1:  Calian Geography


    1.1 Calia is bounded on the west by the Thalassian Sea and on the east by
    the Gunail Mountains.

        1.1.1 Much of Calia is covered by forests, fields, hills, lakes,
        rivers, and other unremarkable features.

        1.1.2 East Calia is a distinct area near the Gunail Mountains in which
        are concentrated bogs, a petrified forest, the Bleak Zone, and other
        peculiar landscapes.

        1.1.3 As of the compilation of the Chronicles, there was no information
        about what lies east of the Gunail Mountains, nor of the lands to the
        north and south of Calia.

    1.2 Cartography has long been a neglected science in Calia.

        1.2.1 Calians have never been ambitious travelers.

        1.2.2 When warlords began marching across the land they commissioned
        maps, but more for their own aggrandizement than for geographic
        accuracy.

        1.2.3 The current confederation has yet to organize itself sufficiently
        to generate a common set of maps, but some individual city-states are
        rumored to have developed maps of their localities.

        1.2.4 What little is known of East Calia comes from The Passage (volume
        7 of the Chronicles).

    1.3 Calia's temperate climate, abundant rainfall, and fertile soil produce
    an abundant supply of food.

        1.3.1 Slaughtering during the Dim Time has made large game and domestic
        animals somewhat scarce, but smaller animals are still plentiful.

        1.3.2 Potatoes, beets, yams, carrots, and other tuberous vegetables are
        particularly well-suited to growing here.

        1.3.3 Also plentiful are pumpkins, squashes, melons, and other fleshy
        vegetables which are both cultivated and found wild in forests and
        plains.

        1.3.4 Cabbages, lettuce, celery, and other low-growing plants are
        cultivated in abundance in the fields of southwestern Calia.

    1.4 Calia's fledgling export-import industry brings in a little hard
    currency.

        1.4.1 The rare tea that grows in the highlands in the northwest is
        sought by connoisseurs all over the world.

        1.4.2 Gum trees in the northern forests are the source of chewing gum.

        1.4.3 Timber from the forests of East Calia is valued because of its
        rich coloration, durability, and suitability for ornate scrollwork.

        1.4.4 Salt mined from the Bleak Zone has a distinctive taste because of
        the traces of other minerals it contains, although it is too piquant
        for use in some recipes.

    1.5 Travellers in Calia will encounter a variety of conditions and
    obstacles.

        1.5.1 The land is crisscrossed by a largely unplanned web of roads,
        paths, and trails.

        1.5.2 Most road-building has been performed by the various city-states,
        who would build a road to a specific point for commercial or defensive
        purposes.

        1.5.3 Because some roads were built by communities which no longer
        exist, there are a number of roads to ruins or to sites which have been
        overgrown by forest in Calia.

        1.5.4 Many streams and rivers cross the land, but most are not
        navigable.

    1.6 East Calia has long been a forbidding place, the subject of wild
    speculation and talespinning.

        1.6.1 Travellers have told of monsters lurking there, but no one has
        been able to verify these tales.

        1.6.2 However, there are records of some adventurers who have gone to
        explore East Calia and have never returned.

